{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252 {\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;\f3\ftech\fcharset0 Symbol;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;\f5\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;\f7\ftech\fcharset0 MathematicalPi-One;\f8\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red17\green40\blue68;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red205\green0\blue0;\red255\green8\blue8;\red0\green0\blue212;\red221\green9\blue7;\red200\green20\blue10;\red0\green102\blue255;}\pard\plain\ql\f0\fs20\cf0 {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }142 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\b\f1\fs96\cf1 I\par }{\fs40 NEAR Laser Rangefinder: A Tool for the Mapping and\par Topologic Study of Asteroid 433 Eros\par }{\i\f2\fs26 Timothy D. Cole\par }{\fs22 n 1999, after a 3-year transit through space, the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous\par (NEAR) spacecraft will place a scientific payload consisting of five instruments into\par a low-altitude orbit (}{\f3\fs22 »}{\fs22 35 km) about the asteroid 433 Eros for 1 year. One instrument,\par the NEAR Laser Rangefinder (NLR), will use infrared laser pulses to provide\par astrophysicists with precision altimetry data, measurements that were previously\par unavailable from asteroid observations. These data will accurately map Eros’s topology,\par identify and characterize small-scale surface features, and precisely determine overall\par volume and mass once they are combined with navigation data. Objectives associated\par with the NLR science mission are presented along with performance specifications and\par instrument design details. The method by which NLR performance was analyzed is\par described, as are tests used to verify its performance and operability. During\par performance testing, an “end-to-end” test was conducted, where the integrated NLR\par instrument was operated in free space using a 216.4-m hallway. Test results fully\par verified all instrument interfaces and indicated that NLR performance parameters were\par well within all specifications. In addition, range noise and biases were repeatable to 1\par count, which is the minimum level possible for a direct-detection rangefinder.\par (Keywords: Acceptance testing, APD detector, Laser altimeter, Laser Rangefinder.)\par }{\b\f1\fs24 INTRODUCTION\par }{\fs21 On 17 February 1996, NASA’s first Discovery\par mission began as the Delta II rocket rose from complex\par 17B carrying the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous\par (NEAR) spacecraft. The overall NEAR mission objective\par is to provide information about the origin and\par nature of near-Earth asteroids, whose characteristics\par are suspected to provide clues about the formation of\par the inner planets, including the Earth, and whose\par composition is reflective of material as it existed soon\par after the “big bang.” Interest in asteroids has been\par further heightened by the realization of their potential\par for terrestrial impacts; the Earth’s geologic record\par contains evidence of many such events, including the\par cataclysmic collision that occurred some 65 million\par years ago.\par Astrophysicists have derived their knowledge of\par asteroids from Earth-based observations, distant spacecraft\par flybys, and analyses of meteorites. From these\par data, a framework was developed to theoretically\par model asteroidal dynamics, structure, and thermal\par evolution. Indeed, sizes and shapes of asteroids contain\par important clues about their thermal, collisional, and}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }143\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\fs21 dynamic histories and their internal\par structures. The NEAR mission\par offers an opportunity to dramatically\par improve our understanding of\par asteroids by gathering data in close\par proximity to one. In addition to\par gathering data typical of previous\par observations, the NEAR mission\par will obtain asteroid data never\par possible before, data whose gathering\par requires close-range operation\par such as high-precision altimetry.\par High-precision altimetry data\par will contribute significant insight\par to asteroid evolution by describing\par surface characteristics and global\par parameters such as volume and\par mass. The altimeter instrument,\par the NEAR Laser Rangefinder\par (NLR), is designed to operate continuously\par throughout the 1-year\par orbit and to produce precision altimetry\par data over altitudes <327\par km from Eros’s surface. This laser\par altimeter detects round-trip time,\par or time of flight (TOF), using a\par high-power pulsed laser with precise (2.08-ns resolution)\par timing measurements, which provides range resolution\par of }{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 32 cm. With onboard calibration capability\par and from instrument-level tests prior to launch, the\par NLR range accuracy is also }{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 32 cm.\par The target asteroid is 433 Eros, one of the largest\par and most intensively studied near-Earth asteroids.\par Astrophysicists have estimated Eros to be 10–20 km in\par size, with a rotational period of roughly 5.27 h and an\par albedo of 0.15. Available Earth-based observations}{\fs14 1\par }{\fs21 indicate that Eros is a highly elliptical body measuring\par 36 }{\f3\fs21 ´ }{\fs21 15}{\f3\fs21  ´ }{\fs21 13 km. These data, however, do not rule out\par the possibility that Eros may actually be a “rubble pile”\par consisting of two or more small, gravitationally bound\par bodies. Figure 1 illustrates the geometry involved for\par NEAR. The instruments continually observe Eros by\par attitude rotation. The rotation plane is constrained by\par the requirements to maintain solar arrays, which are\par mechanically fixed, facing toward the Sun and to keep\par the high-gain antenna within an acceptable angle of\par Earth’s position.\par The NLR design approach is described in this article.\par The approach used to analyze the operating performance\par of the altimeter is presented, and results from\par this analysis are summarized. To validate the NLR\par design and to ensure its successful operation subsequent\par to launch and exposure to deep space over a total\par period of 4 years, several instrument-level and integration\par tests were devised and performed. These included\par an operational test of the NLR to verify correct system\par operation “end-to-end” and to characterize instrument\par bias and performance. End-to-end testing also provided\par information associated with operational peculiarities\par of the NLR and was vital to the check-out of the\par instrument’s interface to the spacecraft.\par }{\b\f1\fs24 MISSION SPECIFICATIONS\par }{\fs21 The objective of the NEAR laser ranging investigation\par is to obtain accurate, high-resolution altimetry\par measurements that can be correlated with navigation\par and gravity data to provide quantitative insight into\par the internal structure, rotational dynamics, and evolution\par of Eros. According to Dr. Maria Zuber, the NLR\par science team leader, NEAR altimetry data and orbital\par tracking data will allow the volume and mass of Eros\par to be estimated to a precision of 0.01% and 0.0001%,\par respectively. Comparison between the NLR-derived\par data set and the predetermined gravity field (estimated\par from Eros’s shape and spacecraft orbit perturbations)\par will permit correlation of surface topography to the\par local gravity field. Although the mean density measurement\par will be limited by the accuracy of our topographic\par field, resultant volume and mass values can be\par estimated with an accuracy significantly improved\par over that for any other asteroid previously observed.\par Specifications for the NLR were derived from NLR\par mission requirements and spacecraft constraints. To\par provide the desired volume and mass measurement\par precision, single-shot altimetry resolution and accuracy\par relative to the asteroid center of mass must not exceed\par 6 m. For small-scale topology, altimetry sample density\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 1. }{\f5\fs16 NEAR will place a spacecraft into orbit about the elliptical asteroid 433 Eros.\par The asteroid’s dimensions have been estimated at 36 }{\f3\fs16 ´ }{\f5\fs16 15 }{\f3\fs16 ´ }{\f5\fs16 13 km. NEAR’s optical\par instruments, including the laser radar, are continuously pointed toward the asteroid’s\par surface. Critical angles must be preserved as the spacecraft orbits Eros and rotates to\par have the instruments face the asteroid’s surface. These angles are governed by the\par requirement to maintain solar illumination of the power arrays and to remain connected\par with the Earth’s communications network, the Deep Space Network.\par }{\b\f6\fs15\cf2 Earth\par Sun\par 12 m\par }{\f7\fs15\cf2 Q}\par {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }144 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\fs21 (spacing between altimetry measurements on Eros’s\par surface) must be almost contiguous along the direction\par of the subsatellite track on the asteroid. Over the range\par of spacecraft altitudes expected with a spacecraft velocity\par of 5 m/s relative to Eros, the sampling density will\par be more than adequate given the altimeter firing rate\par of 1 Hz and a laser transmitter divergence of 235 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 rad.\par Figure 2 illustrates the extreme expected orbit geometries\par and resulting sampling densities. In addition to\par the sampling density along the track, global parameter\par estimation requires that the cross-track resolution, that\par is, the spatial resolution perpendicular to the subsatellite\par tracks, must be }{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 500 m. Cross-track resolution is\par governed by orbit-to-orbit separation and orbit (NLR)\par mission duration; therefore, it was not considered a\par direct requirement for the NLR instrument.\par All NLR measurements will be registered in an\par absolute center-of-mass reference frame, allowing precise\par registration with data from other NEAR sensors.\par Any offset between center of mass and center of figure\par for the asteroid will be determined by correlating gravity\par with topography data. The offset will reveal whether\par internal density differences are uniformly distributed\par and will help verify if Eros consists of two or more\par gravitationally bound bodies. Table 1 summarizes the\par requirements for the NLR based on NLR science\par objectives and on estimated characteristics associated\par with Eros.\par }{\b\f1\fs24 NLR SYSTEM DESIGN: A MODULAR\par APPROACH\par }{\fs21 To meet the accelerated schedule for the NEAR\par program, the NLR was developed as a modular system\par (Fig. 3). We selected a bistatic configuration, which\par permitted parallel development of the transmitter and\par receiver. The NLR instrument operates by transmitting\par laser pulses to the asteroid surface and measuring\par the TOF between outgoing light energy and optical\par energy backscatter from the asteroid surface toward the\par receiver. This direct-detection approach uses leadingedge\par detection based on Neyman–Pearson thresholding,\par thereby greatly simplifying wave form processing\par requirements. Not only are leading-edge altimeters\par relatively simple to implement, but the approach reduces\par range scintillation generated when the extent of\par the target range exceeds the transmitted pulse width,\par a condition that could be encountered when mapping\par irregular surfaces of an asteroid.\par }{\b\f1\fs22 Basic Subsystems and Operation\par }{\fs21 The NLR required 19 months to develop, from start\par of design through completion of flight qualification.\par The transmitter and receiver units were developed and\par tested separately; subsystems were tested prior to integration\par using National Institute of Standards and\par Technology (NIST)-traceable equipment. Although\par schedule constraints precluded fabrication of brassboard\par models, breadboard and engineering models\par were produced and used extensively to debug design\par and packaging issues.\par A block diagram of the NLR instrument (Fig. 4)\par shows its five subsystems: the laser transmitter subassembly\par with a fiber-optic delay assembly (FODA) and\par laser power supply (LPS); the optical receiver; the\par analog electronics with a detector, processor boards,\par and a medium-voltage power supply (MVPS); the digital\par processing unit (DPU); and the low-voltage power\par supply (LVPS). Red lines in Fig. 4 indicate the optical\par paths for laser signals; red words indicate the primary\par signals for the electronics. The optical receiver, analog\par electronics, LVPS, MVPS, and DPU are collectively\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 2. }{\f5\fs16 Mission geometry of the NEAR spacecraft during its\par encounter with the near-Earth asteroid 433 Eros. Two extreme\par orbital configurations are shown to demonstrate different perspectives.\par (a) The two extremes for the NEAR orbit geometry for\par the NLR. (b) The instrument’s footprint and spacing dimensions.\par Case 1 shows the spacecraft orbit position relative to Eros’s major\par axis, with significantly overlapped sampling. Case 2 shows ground\par track sampling, which is nearly contiguous.\par }{\f8\fs15 5.88 m\par 5 m spacing\par Case 1\par Track\par Laser spot size\par 2 m\par Case 2\par (b)\par Center of mass\par 50 km\par Case 1\par Case 2 Eros\par 6.5 km\par 18 km\par (a)\par Track}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }145\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\fs21 Douglas Aerospace Corp. The\par transmitter, once completed and\par qualified by McDonnell Douglas\par Aerospace Corp., was delivered to\par APL for final integration and acceptance\par testing at the instrument\par level. The integrated NLR instrument\par was subsequently tested and\par subsequently flight qualified at\par both instrument and spacecraft\par levels.\par NLR operation is described by\par Fig. 4. The measurement sequence\par begins with a “Fire}{\b\f1\fs21 ” }{\fs21 command issued\par by the DPU at a selected\par pulse repetition frequency. This\par command enables the transmitter,\par which fires a 15-ns optical pulse\par toward the asteroid and simultaneously\par directs a portion of this\par pulse into the FODA for calibration\par TOF purposes. A photodiode at the transmitter\par output detects the laser pulse and sends an electronic\par START signal command to both of the receiver\par }{\b\f1\fs18 Table 1. Specifications for the NLR instrument, determined through direct\par measurement or inferred from related measurements.\par }{\fs18 Parameter Specification Measurement}{\fs14 a}{\fs18 / Estimate}{\fs14 b\par }{\fs18 Max. range (altitude) 50 km >100 km}{\fs14 b\par }{\fs18 Albedo (reflectivity) 0.10–0.22 0.15}{\fs14 b\par }{\fs18 Range accuracy }{\f7\fs18 #}{\fs18 6m <6 m}{\fs14 b\par }{\fs18 Range resolution }{\f7\fs18 #}{\fs18 6m 31.22 cm}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Instrument weight (max.) 5 kg 4.9 kg}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Instrument power (avg.) <22 W 15.1 W}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Sample (grid) spacing Contiguous Contiguous (overlapped)}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Data rates <10 to <56 bps Variable; 6.4–51 bps}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Operational period 1 year (continuous) N/A}{\fs14 c\par }{\fs18 Lifetime 4 years N/A}{\fs14 c\par }{\fs12 a}{\fs16 Actual measurements; }{\fs12 b}{\fs16 estimates using indirect measures; }{\fs12 c}{\fs16 not applicable.\par }{\b\f6\fs15\cf2 (a) Detector assembly\par (b) Laser transmitter\par (c) Mirror assembly\par (d) Digital/LVPS\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 3. }{\f5\fs16 The integrated NLR instrument showing key subsystems. (a) The detector assembly uses an enhanced avalanche photodiode\par hybrid mounted at the receiver focal plane (the detector is on the opposite side as shown). (b) The laser resonator and associated laser\par power supply are based on previous designs. (c) Receiver optics (mirror assembly) consist of an all-reflective, lightweight Dall–Kirkham\par telescope made of aluminum (athermal design). (d) Receiver electronics are shown mounted in the NLR chassis; both the digital\par processing unit and the low-voltage power supply (LVPS) are shown. The calibration unit, a 109.5-m length of spooled optical fiber, is\par shown on top of the transmitter in the center photograph (black cylinder). Not shown is the avalanche photodiode power supply (+550\par V DC) and the laser power supply; both were remotely located to minimize interference with the sensitive receiver electronics.\par }{\fs21 referred to as the NLR receiver. The receiver was\par designed, fabricated, and tested at APL. The transmitter\par was obtained through subcontract from McDonnell}\par {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }146 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\fs21 gallium arsenide (GaAs) TOF counters (range and\par calibration).\par As a result, during operation, the NLR receiver\par should see two optical pulses per transmitted pulse.\par The first, arriving 558 ns after the laser fires, is a\par calibration pulse routed through the fixed delay provided\par by the FODA. Detection of this pulse by the\par receiver halts the calibration TOF counter. The second\par return is the optical backscatter from the asteroid,\par which halts the range counter. To minimize noise,\par received optical signals are compared with a threshold\par level set either by ground command or through an\par auto-acquisition (calibration) sequence. After both\par TOF counters are stopped, the DPU reads the counter\par values and formats their contents (and other data) into\par NLR science data packets for transmission over the\par 1553 bus, as requested by the spacecraft data collection\par process. Consequently, what is measured is elapsed\par time between the START indication from the laser\par and the arrival of STOP signals as produced within the\par receiver. Terms used in Fig. 4 are defined and described\par in subsequent sections. The figure also illustrates the\par electrical interface between the spacecraft and the\par instrument. (Heater control and receiver door release\par circuits are not shown.)\par }{\b\f1\fs22 NLR Transmitter\par }{\fs21 The laser resonator assembly (LRA) is a solid-state\par laser based on a proven polarization-coupled U-cavity\par design}{\fs14 2 }{\fs21 (Fig. 5). The gain medium is a Cr:Nd:YAG\par zigzag slab, side-pumped at 809 nm using a 20-element\par gallium arsenide (GaAs) diode array (having thermal\par sensitivity of }{\f7\fs21 Dl}{\fs21 /}{\f7\fs21 D}{\i\f2\fs21 T }{\fs21 = 1 nm/4}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C) with a peak power\par of 620 W in a pulse width of 200 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 s. The opposite side\par of the slab is coupled to a heat sink for thermal control.\par An antireflection coating applied to the long dimension\par of the slab improves pump-power coupling efficiency,\par and a high reflectance coating on the heat-sink\par side reflects pump energy back into the slab. This\par zigzag pumping yields a uniform distribution of optical\par energy throughout the gain medium, increasing absorption\par path length and conversion efficiency.\par An antireflection coating at both slab end faces\par reduces optical losses for rotated polarization states. A\par quarter-wave plate placed after the slab end face\par maintains polarization. The gain medium is located in\par a cross-porro cavity to provide boresight stability; a\par Risley wedge in each porro prism assembly permits\par cavity alignment during assembly. An internal aperture\par reduces higher-order modes, and a 9.3}{\f3\fs21 ´ }{\fs21 Galilean\par telescope acts as an external beam expander to reduce\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 4. }{\f5\fs16 The five subsystems of the NLR instrument consist of the transmitter subsystem, the low-voltage power supply (LVPS), the\par optical receiver, the analog electronics, and the digital processing unit. Gray areas indicate these subsystems. Red lines indicate optical\par signals (laser light). Thresholding is used both to start the time-of-flight (TOF) counters (START) and to stop the same counters (STOP).\par APD = avalanche photodiode; }{\f7\fs16 m}{\f5\fs16 C = microcontroller; FPGA = field-programmable gate array; MVPS = medium-voltage power supply;\par TLM = telemetry data.\par }{\f5\fs15 Nd:YAG (diode-pumped)\par Q-switched laser\par Laser power\par supply\par Spacecraft\par }{\f5\fs13 Amp\par }{\b\f4\fs15 Analog\par electronics\par }{\f5\fs15 +\par }{\b\f4\fs15 Digital processing\par unit\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 “Fire”\par }{\f3\fs15 ± }{\f5\fs15 5 V }{\f3\fs15 ±}{\f5\fs15 15 V\par + 15 V\par Data/control\par Spectral\par filter\par Backscattered\par pulse\par 9.3}{\f7\fs15 3 }{\f5\fs15 Galilean optic\par }{\b\f4\fs15 Transmitter subsystem\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 Q-switch\par }{\f5\fs15 Transmit\par pulse\par }{\f5\fs15\cf4 STOP\par }{\f5\fs15 Fiber-optic delay assembly (FODA)\par }{\b\f4\fs15 Detector\par }{\f5\fs15 +Vref\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 Detected laser\par pulse\par Diode drive\par Data\par “Ready”\par }{\f5\fs15\cf4 START\par }{\f5\fs15 Spacecraft power (33.5 V DC)\par }{\b\f4\fs15 LVPS subsystem\par }{\f5\fs15 +\par •\par •\par TLM data\par •\par DC/DC converters\par GaAs\par TOF\par 480-MHz\par oscillator\par FPGA\par Data\par acquisition\par RTX 2010\par C\par 1553\par interface\par MVPS\par Threshold\par Thermal\par control\par APD\par Amplification\par and filtering\par }{\b\f4\fs15 Optical\par receiver\par }{\f5\fs15 –\par –\par }{\f5\fs13\cf3 Data/control\par }{\f7\fs15 m}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }147\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\fs21 angular divergence. (Output beam divergence was\par specified as }{\f3\fs21 £}{\fs21 300 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 rad; our final divergence, in vacuum,\par is 235 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 rad.)\par The laser operates at 1.064 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 m and is Q-switched\par for pulsed-mode operation using a lithium niobate\par (LiNbO}{\fs14 3}{\fs21 ) Pockels cell. A half-wave plate provides\par polarization compensation. Placement of the Q-switch\par in the output segment of the beam path minimizes the\par potential for optical damage to the crystal by locating\par it within the low circulating power portion of the\par resonator. Because LiNbO}{\fs14 3 }{\fs21 is pyroelectric,\par thermal gradients must be\par controlled during operation in vacuum\par environments. For this reason,\par the NLR has redundant operational\par and survival heater circuits to\par reduce thermal variations to }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 2 to\par }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 4}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C of the thermal set point.\par To provide thermal isolation,\par the LRA is mounted to the NLR\par housing using Vespel shoulder\par washers. Figure 6 is a photograph of\par the actual LRA assembly depicting\par the laser and associated resonator\par optics. Note the lightweight 9.3}{\f3\fs21 ´\par }{\fs21 output optic. Mechanical interface\par for the LRA uses a three-point kinematic\par mounting configuration.\par Table 2 presents specifications\par for the NLR. Also presented are\par measurements (and estimates) for\par each of these values. The laser\par transmitter was extensively characterized\par as part of the NLR instrument\par test sequence. The system\par reliably produced 15-ns (}{\f7\fs21 6}{\fs21 0.82\par ns) optical pulses each having 15.3\par mJ (}{\f7\fs21 6}{\fs21 2 mJ) energy. This optical\par pulse was coupled to the FODA\par and was measured at the LRA\par output coupler as 7.2 pJ. (All\par power measurements used NISTtraceable\par power meters accurate\par to }{\f7\fs21 6}{\fs21 5%). Prelaunch NLR testing\par demonstrated that the NLR\par passed all specifications.\par The output beam was characterized\par using a fast (picosecond\par response) detector to detail the\par longitudinal mode structure (Fig.\par 7). Characterization of the near\par field included measurement of\par beam diameter (defined where\par amplitude decreases to 1/}{\i\f2\fs21 e}{\fs14 2 }{\fs21 of\par maximum), modal structure, and\par energy distribution. Far-field testing\par consisted of beam divergence,\par jitter, and wander. Divergence significantly affects the\par science data through surface sampling size. This parameter\par was measured in both air (ambient, at 135\par }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 rad) and vacuum (235 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 rad) (Fig. 8). Gaussian\par correlation coefficients along both the }{\i\f2\fs21 x }{\fs21 and }{\i\f2\fs21 y }{\fs21 axes\par were 0.91; therefore, performance was better than the\par specified 0.90. The difference in divergence is related\par to output telescope alignment with and without atmosphere.\par Although the index of refraction changes by\par only 3 parts in 10,000,}{\fs14 3 }{\fs21 it was enough in a high-power\par }{\f5\fs14 Turning\par prism\par Polarizer\par cube\par LiNbO}{\f5\fs11 3\par }{\f5\fs14 Q-switch Risley\par Wavelength\par plate\par Porro\par prism\par Porro\par prism\par Risley\par Aperture\par Wavelength\par plate\par Wavelength\par plate\par Corner\par cube\par Cr:Nd:YAG slab\par (lasing medium)\par }{\f5\fs14\cf4 Output\par beam\par }{\f5\fs14 Galilean telescope\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 5. }{\f5\fs16 NLR laser resonator cavity configuration is a polarization-coupled U-shaped\par cavity design.}{\f5\fs12 2 }{\f5\fs16 The Cr:Nd:YAG zigzag slab is side-pumped by a diode laser array to\par optimize conversion efficiency.\par }{\f5\fs15 Polarizing cube\par Cr:Nd:YAG slab\par Porro prism\par Corner cube\par 9.3}{\f7\fs15 3 }{\f5\fs15 Galilean\par telescope\par Porro prism\par LiNbO}{\f5\fs11 3 }{\f5\fs15 Q-switch\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 6. }{\f5\fs16 The LRA optical component configuration. Note the lightweight structure, made\par of aluminum, used to mount the elements for the Galilean beam expander. One side uses\par metallic Mylar for electromagnetic compatibility/electromagnetic interference purposes\par (bottom of unit). Mechanical mounting is 3-point kinematic.}\par {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }148 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\fs21 optic using air-gap spacing to make a measurable difference\par in the wavefront shaping.\par The LPS provides the control logic and power\par necessary to enable and fire the LRA. The LPS also\par provides the 190-}{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 s pump current (45 A) to the diode\par array. A hybrid component develops the }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 2800 V\par necessary to operate the Q-switch. Upon receiving a\par “Fire” command from the DPU, the LPS uses a signal\par from the NLR logic within the DPU to begin charging\par the storage capacitors that produce the diode drive\par current. To reduce noise coupling to the receiver\par during expected arrival of laser backscatter, the switching\par DC/DC converter within the LPS is disabled for\par the maximum ranging distance (327 km). Subsequent\par to maximum TOF, the LPS is enabled to prepare for\par the next pulse.\par }{\b\f1\fs22 NLR Receiver\par }{\fs21 The NLR receiver design uses a lightweight Cassegrain\par telescope, a spectral filter (centered at the laser\par wavelength), a single-element avalanche photodiode\par (APD) hybrid detector, amplification filtering, voltage\par biasing and thresholding circuitry, and appropriate\par power supplies (}{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 550 V DC for the APD from the\par MVPS, and }{\f7\fs21 6}{\fs21 15 V DC and }{\f7\fs21 6}{\fs21 5 V DC from the LVPS).\par The receiver design was based on previous APL\par APD-based detection circuit designs and on APL developments\par in TOF systems using high-speed (2 GHz)\par GaAs applications-specific integrated circuitry (ASIC).\par A significant aspect of our configuration is that the\par NLR receiver optics act as a direct-detection “photon\par bucket.” This approach drastically simplified the design\par and development of the optical receiver because\par }{\b\f1\fs18 Table 2. NLR design parameters.\par }{\fs18 Parameter Specification Measurement}{\fs14 a}{\fs18 / Estimate}{\fs14 b\par }{\fs18 Transmitter pulse energy >5 mJ @ 1.064 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 m 15.6 mJ}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Transmitter energy jitter <10% <1%}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Transmitted pulsewidth, }{\i\f2\fs18 t}{\fs14 pw }{\fs18 10 ns < }{\i\f2\fs18 t}{\fs14 pw }{\fs18 < 20 ns 15 ns}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Transmitted pulsewidth jitter <2 ns 0.82 ns}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Transmitter wavelength broadening }{\f3\fs18 ±}{\fs18 3 nm }{\f3\fs18 ±}{\fs18 1 nm}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 PRF rates 1/8, 1 (nominal), 2, 8 Hz 1/8, 1, 2, 8 Hz}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Range gate (resolution) N/A}{\fs14 c }{\fs18 0.00–42.63 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 s (41.67 ns)}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 T-0 event mask (resolution) N/A}{\fs14 c }{\fs18 0.00–511.50 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 s (500 ns)}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 TEM00 mode (% Gaussian) >90% 91%}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Divergence (1/}{\i\f2\fs18 e}{\fs14 2 }{\fs18 ) <300 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad 235 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Beam waist (near-field) N/A}{\fs14 c }{\fs18 22.93 }{\f7\fs18 6 }{\fs18 0.12 mm}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Beam centroid jitter (shot-to-shot) <50 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad 16.31 }{\f7\fs18 6 }{\fs18 24.39 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad }{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Beam centroid wander <300 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad 4.81 }{\f3\fs18 ± }{\fs18 31.25 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad }{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Calibration power jitter }{\f7\fs18 6}{\fs18 5% <5%}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Calibration timing jitter <1 m <31.22 cm}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Thermal control }{\f7\fs18 6}{\fs18 2}{\fs14 o}{\fs18 C }{\f7\fs18 6}{\fs18 2}{\f3\fs18 °}{\fs18 C}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Shots (lifetime) >31.5 }{\f3\fs18 ´ }{\fs18 10}{\fs14 6 }{\fs18 >1 }{\f3\fs18 ´ }{\fs18 10}{\fs14 9 }{\fs18 (TBD)\par Effective aperture, }{\i\f2\fs18 f}{\fs18 /# N/A}{\fs14 c }{\fs18 7.62 cm, }{\i\f2\fs18 f}{\fs18 /3.4}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Spectral receiver bandwidth <10 nm 7 nm}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Temporal receiver bandwidth }{\f7\fs18 #}{\fs18 100 MHz 30 MHz}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 APD dark voltage }{\f7\fs18 #}{\fs18 195 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 Vrms (24 MHz bandwith) 150 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 Vrms (24 MHz bandwidth) }{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 APD responsivity }{\f3\fs18 ³}{\f7\fs18 $}{\fs18 770 kV/W 775 kV/W}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Optical receiver FOV >900 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad 2.9 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad}{\fs14 b\par }{\fs18 Threshold levels N/A}{\fs14 c }{\fs18 8 (2}{\i\f2\fs14 n }{\f3\fs18 ´ }{\fs18 16 mV, }{\i\f2\fs18 n }{\fs18 = 0 to 7)}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 Data rates 51 bps, 6.4 bps Variable, including 51 and 6.4 bps}{\fs14 a\par }{\fs18 TX-to-RX alignment shift <1100 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad (700 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 m effective diameter 345.0 }{\f7\fs18 m}{\fs18 rad}{\fs14 a }{\fs18 (pre- to post-values\par APD) vibration test)\par }{\fs16 Note: APD = avalanche photodiode; FOV = field of view; PRF = pulse repetition frequency; TBD = to be determined; T-0 = laser firing\par time; TEM00 = transverse electromagnetic wave fundamental mode.\par }{\fs12 a}{\fs16 Actual measurements; }{\fs12 b}{\fs16 estimates using indirect measures; }{\fs12 c}{\fs16 not applicable.}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }149\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\fs21 the system is not required to produce an image. Consequently,\par the optics could tolerate high levels of\par aberrations as long as the resultant spot size remained\par within the physical and alignment bounds of the APD\par detector. This gave us the freedom to select the receiver\par optical design best suited for low weight and manufacturing\par ease, specifically, an }{\i\f2\fs21 f}{\fs21 /3.4 Dall–Kirkham\par design (Fig. 9).\par Our telescope is a two-mirror aluminum Dall–\par Kirkham arrangement using an athermal design. The\par primary mirror is 3.5 in. (8.89 cm) (see Fig. 9) with\par an overall field of view of 3 mrad. The Dall–Kirkham\par layout is simple to manufacture but suffers primarily\par from coma arising from off-axis light. However, since\par the NLR operates with paraxial light, comatic aberration\par is minimal and does not influence the performance\par of the receiver.\par Since there are no bright sources near the NLR line\par of sight when viewing Eros, specifications of surface\par roughness for the aluminum mirrors were relaxed; we\par used diamond-turned surfaces, which are relatively\par inexpensive for the mechanical and optical quality\par provided. No superpolishing was required; only an\par antioxidant layer was deposited onto the surfaces to\par maintain reflectivity. Stray light contamination was\par controlled by a system of baffles in the receiver support\par structure to prevent off-axis light from reaching the\par primary mirror in less than two reflections. The tworeflection\par tolerance reduced the number of baffles, and\par hence, the weight of the receiver housing. Baffles,\par made of lightweight magnesium, were also knifeedged\par to minimize direct reflections into the receiver\par telescope.\par The final mass of the telescope assembly (Fig. 9) was\par 167.4 g. Acceptance testing indicated that 98% of\par the focused energy was located within a 100- }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 m\par central (Airy) disk, easily accommodated by the 700-\par }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 m active diameter of the APD detector.\par To further reduce optical background noise, we\par placed a narrowband (7 nm) spectral filter in the\par convergence cone of the telescope, a location selected\par to reduce weight and cost. Spectral filter passbands are\par strongly dependent on temperature and angle of incidence.\par To minimize thermally induced performance\par variation, the filter was fabricated using a proprietary\par deposition process}{\fs14 4 }{\fs21 that reduces passband shift by a\par factor of 10. We reduced angular sensitivity by selecting\par a wide enough passband to allow light from all\par angles of the telescope, where the converging cone of\par light at the detector extends from 4 to 9}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 , to pass with\par minimal attenuation. The relatively low orbital velocity\par of the spacecraft (5 m/s) imposed negligible Doppler\par requirement on filter bandpass performance.\par A windowed door over the entrance aperture of the\par NLR receiver protects the optics from contamination.\par Our primary concern was contamination from byproducts\par arising from propellant burns during the transit\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 7. }{\f5\fs16 Temporal response of an LRA optical pulse. Each\par temporal unit represents 10 ns; full-width half maximum measures\par 15 }{\f7\fs16 6 }{\f5\fs16 2 ns. Longitudinal modes are present because the\par cavity is single mode only through aperturing.\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 8. }{\f5\fs16 Ambient far-field pattern of a typical NLR pulse (135 }{\f7\fs16 6\par }{\f5\fs16 2 }{\f7\fs16 m}{\f5\fs16 rad at 1/ e}{\f5\fs12 2 }{\f5\fs16 points). The beam pattern, which approaches a\par Gaussian intensity distribution, was acquired during ambient\par testing at the nominal pulse repetition frequency (1 Hz) and\par spacecraft voltage (33.5 V). Vacuum divergence measured 235 }{\f7\fs16 6\par }{\f5\fs16 2 }{\f7\fs16 m}{\f5\fs16 rad.\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 9. }{\f5\fs16 Dall–Kirkham, athermal (aluminum) design for the NLR\par f/3.4 receiver telescope. All optical surfaces were diamondturned\par for NLR use. Overall weight of this telescope was 167.4 g.\par }{\f5\fs15 100 mV\par 10 ns\par Spectra\par filter\par 8.89 cm\par 7.91 cm}\par {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }150 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\fs21 phase, but the door also provided mechanical\par and contamination protection\par during prelaunch activities. The door is\par a deployable element meant to be\par opened once, which was successfully accomplished\par on September 24, 1997.\par Both transmitter and receiver optical\par sections were kept under a positive purge\par using research-grade nitrogen prior to\par launch with a purge valve in the receiver\par door for pressure relief. (The transmitter\par did not require a door; however, the\par transmitter was nevertheless kept under\par purge until final pressure equalization\par was reached subsequent to launch.) The\par door-release mechanism uses redundant\par pyrotechnic wire cutters with a tempered\par beryllium oxide wire. Six silica-coated windows\par are located on the receiver door to provide approximately\par 50% of the total collecting area in the event\par of a door-release failure at Eros. This 50% collection\par area will permit the NLR to operate at the planned\par orbital altitude (50 km).\par }{\b\f1\fs22 Analog Electronics\par }{\fs21 The purpose of the analog electronics is to convert\par backscattered optical energy from the asteroid surface\par into a digital STOP signal, permitting round-trip TOF\par measurements to be computed. Four fundamental stages\par compose the analog electronics (Fig. 10): the APD\par hybrid detector, a video amplifier, an integrator stage\par (Bessel-type lowpass filter), and a programmable comparator.\par The detector and amplifier are installed on a rigidflex\par detector board where the detector electronics use\par 50-}{\f7\fs21 V }{\fs21 matched lines; the integrator and comparator are\par installed on a separate, analog signal processing board.\par The APD is a hybrid device combining an enhanced\par silicon APD with temperature compensation and transimpedance\par amplification. The enhancement process\par pushes maximum response of the APD detector slightly\par beyond 1 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 m. The particular APD used for the NLR\par is a wide field-of-view (FOV) detector with a measured\par bandwidth response of 37 MHz and responsivity of 770\par kV/W. (For coherent laser radars, electronic bandwidth\par of the baseband signal relates to the FOV used in\par observing the returned signal.) Assuming 15-ns pulses\par at 1.064 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 m, our detector circuit operates with a\par minimum detectable power of 9 nW and maximum\par input power of 0.5 W. Gain variation is less than 5%\par over the temperature range from }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 8 to }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 40}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C due to\par compensation; however, our analog electronics housing\par is thermally controlled to 20 }{\f7\fs21 6 }{\fs21 10}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C.\par The video amplifier stage consists of a wideband\par amplifier used to provide a gain of }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 50 over a 75-MHz\par bandwidth. The filtering, or integrator, stage is a\par seven-pole lowpass Bessel filter with 3-dB cutoff at\par 30 MHz. The lowpass filter is used to integrate return\par pulses that may be spatially dilated by interaction of\par the transmitted laser pulse with the asteroid’s topology.\par The use of this filter optimizes the probability\par of detection of anticipated surface slopes while it\par limits high-frequency noise response of the analog\par electronics.}{\fs14 5\par }{\fs21 A comparator stage determines whether an input\par signal has sufficient energy to generate a STOP signal.\par The comparator operates using one of eight preset\par threshold levels, which are set by ground command or\par auto-thresholding. These threshold levels vary from 16\par to 2048 mV; the lowest threshold is below the receiver\par noise floor, and the highest setting is just above the\par signal strength associated with the calibration input.\par Therefore, threshold levels increase as 2}{\i\f2\fs14 n }{\i\f2\fs21 V}{\fs14 th }{\fs21 , where\par }{\i\f2\fs21 n }{\fs21 = 0, . . . ,7 and }{\i\f2\fs21 V}{\fs14 th }{\fs21 is the threshold voltage (16 mV).\par Thresholding permits an input dynamic range of 24 dB\par to compensate for instrument noise sensitivity and\par variations of return signal strength. The comparator\par exhibits very low propagation delay (<2 ns) and very\par little overdrive dispersion, making it ideal for precise\par timing applications such as leading-edge detection.}{\fs14 6\par }{\b\f1\fs22 Digital Processing Unit\par }{\fs21 To save weight and to minimize high-speed lines to\par the TOF chip, the DPU uses a single rigid-flex multilayered\par board (see Fig. 11). The board contains\par a GaAs TOF chip, a radiation-hardened RTX-2010\par FORTH-language microcontroller, a dual-frequency\par stable oscillator, a field-programmable gate array\par (FPGA) chip, a redundant-channel 1553 chip set and\par attendant transformers, digital memory, an analog-todigital\par (A/D) converter and sampler, and control logic.\par }{\fs14 7 }{\fs21 The dual-frequency oscillator produces two output\par frequencies: 480 MHz }{\f7\fs21 6}{\fs21 0.01% and 48 MHz }{\f7\fs21 6}{\fs21 0.01%,\par with short-term (100 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 s) frequency stability of 1:10}{\fs14 8}{\fs21 ,\par but only the 480-MHz frequency is used. The required\par 48-MHz clock is generated using the 480-MHz\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 10. }{\f5\fs16 Analog processing block diagram. The analog signal was generated\par by a hybrid avalanche photodiode detector (APD) that included a transimpedance\par amplifier and thermal compensation. Filtering (integrator) was used to counteract\par pulse dilation effects. The filter used was a 7-pole low-pass Bessel filter (integrator).\par The threshold circuit (comparator) operated at one of eight levels, which are\par binary multiples of 16 mV.\par }{\f5\fs15 Integrator\par Threshold\par Receive\par optics\par APD\par hybrid\par Video\par amplifier\par 51}{\f7\fs15 V\par }{\f5\fs15 +\par +\par –\par –\par Comparator\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 STOP\par }{\f5\fs15 +V\par Reference\par Reference\par select\par 0.1 F }{\f7\fs15 m}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }151\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\fs21 frequency within the TOF ASIC. The FPGA uses this\par 48-MHz clock and produces 24-MHz, 2-MHz, and\par 500-kHz output clocks for the 1553-bus controller,\par RTX microcontroller, and FPGA internal range-gating\par counters, respectively.\par The GaAs TOF chip is an APL-designed ASIC\par with one 11-bit counter (used for calibration) and one\par 21-bit counter (used for range measurement with 1-bit\par overflow). Both counters operate at 480 MHz. The\par TOF counters are enabled with a “start” pulse from the\par transmitter (START) and are stopped when a detected\par return pulse arrives from the receiver comparator\par (STOP). The RTX-2010 is a parallel 16-bit microcontroller\par that operates at 2 MHz to conserve power. The\par microprocessor chip contains three on-chip timers, a\par dual-stack architecture, and an interrupt controller\par with the ability to handle five external interrupts.\par The 1553-bus interface to the DPU consists of two\par 1553 bus transformers (channels A and B), a 1553\par dual bus transceiver, and a bus protocol controller.\par The controller responds to bus commands sent by the\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 11. }{\f5\fs16 Digital processing unit (DPU) single-board implementation contains a GaAs time-of-flight chip, a radiation-hardened FORTHlanguage\par microcontroller, memory, an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter and sampler, redundant-channel 1553 chip set and attendant\par transformers, a dual-frequency stable oscillator, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) chip, and control logic. The photograph shows\par DPU and low-voltage power supply boards as they appeared in the NLR chassis. An optical bench was mounted to this chassis, and\par the receiver and laser transmitter were aligned and mounted to this bench. Various in/out (I/O) ports are identified.\par }{\fs21 spacecraft command telemetry processor (CTP). The\par bus controller handles data transfers, commands, and\par telemetry that transfer between the NLR and the\par CTP. Data bus arbitration is handled by our FPGA,\par which simplified digital hardware design and fabrication\par by incorporating several functions such as address\par decoding, memory arbitration, clock generation, receiver\par range gating, receiver enable (denoted T-0\par masking), and transmitter and receiver configuration\par control.\par T-0 masking is necessary to eliminate spurious noise\par that is produced with the formation of the laser optical\par pulse. T-0 masking is a disabling of the range counters\par (both calibration and return signal counters) for a few\par cycles of the natural response of the receiver circuit at\par the time the optical pulse is formed within the laser\par transmitter. Without such masking, opportunities for\par false STOP signals are possible, and actual range\par measurements would not be possible. A second rangegating\par function is implemented to gate the return signal\par to improve the sensitivity of the NLR receiver.\par }{\f5\fs15 Receiver\par GaAs\par time-of flight\par chip\par 1553\par transformer\par 1553\par transformer\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 STOP\par }{\f5\fs15 Control\par 480-MHz\par oscillator\par Laser\par transmitter\par RTX 2010\par microcontroller\par Actel A1280 FPGA\par (8000 gates, 140 I/O pins)\par Control\par Data\par 48 MHz\par Ack\par Ack\par Control\par Control\par Data\par 2 MHz\par 8-bit\par A/D converter\par Memory\par 2K }{\f7\fs15 3 }{\f5\fs15 16 PROM\par 32K }{\f7\fs15 3 }{\f5\fs15 16 EEPROM\par 32K }{\f7\fs15 3 }{\f5\fs15 SRAM\par Multiplexer\par Control\par Control\par Data\par Control\par Data\par Data\par 1553 bus\par protocol\par controller\par 1553\par dual bus\par transceiver\par 24 MHz\par Data\par Control\par Control\par Data\par Redundant spacecraft\par 1553 bus interface\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 START\par }{\f5\fs15 Off-the-shelf devices\par Application-specific\par integrated circuit\par APL-programmed device\par Specially designed optics\par 1553 interface\par with spacecraft\par Interface to\par transmitter\par and receiver\par DPU board\par Unregulated bus voltage\par (from spacecraft)\par Low-voltage\par power supply}\par {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }152 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\fs21 The sought-after signal is the STOP indication,\par which is used to indicate a detected optical pulse above\par the set threshold. STOP terminates either the calibration\par or range TOF counter, depending on system configuration,\par and the corresponding range is read out.\par }{\b\f1\fs22 Software\par }{\fs21 The NLR software was programmed using the\par FORTH programming language for the RTX-2010\par microcontroller. The software interfaces with the\par spacecraft CTP via the 1553 bus, executes commands\par from the ground control, formats science telemetry and\par instrument housekeeping commands, and controls\par instrument operation. The software was implemented\par in a multitasking environment running four different\par NLR programs}{\fs14 8}{\fs21 : (1) “NLR_PROCESS” handles\par transmitter/receiver control and data formatting;\par (2) “TELEMETRY_PROCESS” implements necessary\par 1553 protocol for data transfer; (3) “COMMAND_\par PROCESS” handles incoming instrument commands;\par and (4) “DUMP_PROCESS” transfers blocks of NLR\par memory to the telemetry stream for transmission to the\par ground.\par “NLR_PROCESS” is the main controlling program\par for the instrument. This task has the highest priority\par and requires 5 ms to execute. On the basis of a minor\par frame interrupt (every 125 ms) arriving by the 1553\par bus, this program determines when to fire the transmitter,\par initialize receiver parameters (i.e., T-0 mask,\par threshold level, and receiver range-gate), and read and\par format calibration and range counter values (i.e., the\par altimetry measurements). Measurement data, spacecraft\par time, and NLR configuration parameters are\par formatted into a science packet for each transmitter\par shot, with 56 shots (112 for a pulse rate of 2 Hz)\par accumulated into each of these packets for transmission\par to ground via the downlink.\par “NLR_PROCESS” is programmed with several\par calibration algorithms. Operating during a contingency,\par or “fail-safe,” mode, the TOF counter is started by\par a delayed transmitter fire command as opposed to an\par electronic trigger from the transmitter photodiode.\par This fire command is purposely delayed due to an\par inherently variable delay in the transmitter optical\par output, nominally 192 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 s. We can determine this delay\par by initiating a calibration mode that varies the T-0\par mask through a 10-bit programmable counter until a\par reasonable calibration range is detected. Since the\par counter has a 500-ns resolution, the maximum range\par error due to a failed START would be 74.9 m.\par The calibration algorithm configures the NLR to\par step through each threshold level and collect 16 samples\par of range and calibration data at a rate of 8 Hz.\par Collecting range data at 8 Hz minimizes the influence\par of relative movement between the NLR and asteroid\par terrain, permitting high correlation between data\par points. This is important as range rate is calculated for\par each new sample at each threshold and is compared to\par a predetermined difference (sent as a command argument)\par to determine the system noise floor and, hence,\par the operating threshold for reliable range returns. The\par 8-Hz mode occurs for a 2-s burst followed by a 14-s\par quiescent period to reduce thermal stresses within the\par transmitter. Following the 14-s pause, the NLR automatically\par reconfigures to the nominal 1-Hz rate.\par }{\b\f1\fs22 In-line Optical Calibration\par }{\fs21 The NLR is the first laser altimeter to feature inline\par calibration, which was implemented using a\par 109.5-m single-mode fused silica optical fiber. This\par fiber optic delay assembly (FODA) is optically connected\par between the transmitter and receiver using\par small turning mirrors and graded-index lens assemblies.\par A minute portion of each transmitted pulse is\par injected (using internal transmitter scattering at the\par corner cube, see Fig. 5) into the FODA, producing a\par constant optical delay of 529.20 ns between transmitted\par pulse and reception of that pulse by the receiver\par optics; the measured delay after integration into the\par system was 558.33 ns, indicating an additional system\par bias of 29.13 ns. By directing each transmitted optical\par pulse directly to the receiver optics, “true” end-to-end\par calibration is possible, which allows detection of\par range-walk, an error caused by threshold-level changes\par or oscillator drift. This self-calibration feature, therefore,\par ensures high quality of the NLR data and permits\par evaluation of the NLR instrument functionality\par throughout the mission. With the existence of the\par FODA, we essentially provide the NLR with a virtual\par fly-along laser radar target. This allows us to operate\par the NLR and obtain calibration measurements based\par on actual TOF readings using laser output power until\par our arrival at Eros.\par In addition to instrument operation, the FODA\par proved invaluable for performance evaluation and\par debugging during prelaunch integration and test\par phases. Using the calibration range counter during\par testing allowed us to determine the quality of the instrument\par measurements based on threshold level selected,\par power levels used, operational mode selected,\par and various environmental conditions.\par }{\b\f1\fs24 NLR PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS\par }{\fs21 Performance was estimated using several approaches,\par including the basic radiometric modeling (Neyman\par –Pearson detection) and Webb’s}{\fs14 9 }{\fs21 photoelectron\par output approximation. Determination of the adequacy\par of the NLR design requires evaluation of performance\par given parameter values describing Eros, NLR mission\par parameters (e.g., orbit altitude), and the NLR design\par implementation. (Table 1 summarizes these parameters}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }153\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\fs21 describing the NLR design.) Analytical evaluations\par used these values to examine expected NLR performance\par through link margin calculations.\par Radiometric performance of the APD and associated\par analog electronics was particularly important. Using\par Neyman–Pearson detection statistics, given the\par required detection probability (}{\i\f2\fs21 P}{\fs14 d }{\fs21 = 0.95) and false\par alarms (<10}{\fs14 –2}{\fs21 ), our performance model indicates ranging\par operation well beyond the required 50 km (Fig.\par 12). At 232 km, our analysis indicates }{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 135 equivalent\par signal photons (}{\i\f2\fs21 N}{\fs14 s}{\fs21 ) arriving at the NLR detector\par (APD) surface, providing a detection probability }{\i\f2\fs21 P}{\fs14 d }{\fs21 of\par 0.1 with false alarms of less than 0.01. Our detection\par scheme uses single-shot statistics; no multi-shot averaging\par is performed. At this range, we set the threshold\par level at 7}{\f7\fs21 s}{\fs14 0 }{\fs21 (}{\f7\fs21 s}{\fs14 0 }{\fs21 is the receiver noise floor power level),\par providing a false alarm count of 6 }{\f3\fs21 ´ }{\fs21 10}{\f7\fs14 2}{\fs14 4}{\fs21 . Figure 12\par illustrates detection probability and the number of\par source photons received at the detector as a function\par of range to the asteroid.\par Because the NLR uses leading-edge detection, pulse\par dilation due to interaction with the surface will introduce\par range error and can lead to performance loss as\par a result of receiver filter mismatch. This is especially\par true when we observe Eros at an angle, }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 s}{\fs21 , from nadir\par or when we range to a sloped surface ( }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 p}{\fs21 , from the local\par horizon), or when significant surface roughness (}{\i\f2\fs21 Z}{\fs14 rms}{\fs21 )\par exists. Pulse dilation is defined as the temporal error\par in return pulse detection caused by elapsed time between\par the arrival of the initial and final backscattered\par photons for a given transmitter pulse, leading to error\par in measured TOF. Figure 13 illustrates these concepts\par for a divergence of }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 d}{\fs21 , nadir altitude }{\i\f2\fs21 h}{\fs14 0}{\fs21 , mean slope of\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 12. }{\f5\fs16 Plot of NLR performance based on parameter values describing Eros, mission\par geometry, and the NLR design. Avalanche photodiode output current was based on\par Webb’s approximation. Probability of detection P}{\f5\fs12 d }{\f5\fs16 indicates adequate operation beyond\par 50 km. At 223 km, analysis indicates }{\f3\fs16 »}{\f5\fs16 135 equivalent source photons ( N}{\f5\fs12 s}{\f5\fs16 ) arriving at the\par detector surface ( P}{\f5\fs12 d }{\f5\fs16 = 0.1). Statistics assumed single-shot operation. False alarm was\par less than 6 }{\f3\fs16 ´ }{\f5\fs16 10}{\f7\fs12 2}{\f5\fs12 4 }{\f5\fs16 using a threshold set at 7}{\f3\fs16 ´ }{\f5\fs16 receiver noise floor (}{\f7\fs16 s}{\f5\fs12 0}{\f5\fs16 ).\par }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 s}{\fs21 , and an off-nadir look angle of }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 p}{\fs21 . An analysis}{\fs14 10 }{\fs21 was\par performed that estimates pulse dilation as a range error,\par }{\i\f2\fs21 Z}{\fs21 ( }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 s}{\fs21 , }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 p}{\fs21 ), within a footprint. Figure 14 is a plot of\par }{\i\f2\fs21 Z}{\fs21 ( }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 s}{\fs21 , }{\f7\fs21 u}{\fs14 p}{\fs21 ) using values of pointing angles and a range\par of slope values presumed for the NLR mission. The loci\par where we match the science requirement of 6-m error\par are shown in Fig. 14.\par Pulse dilation can also occur as the result of beam\par wave-front curvature or variations in localized surface\par albedo. Additional range errors can arise from electronic\par delay, timing errors, and incorrect correlation of\par attitude with range sample. Accounting for the various\par sources of range error with root-sum-square error analysis,\par we determined that the NLR instrument will\par generate a topographic field that is accurate to }{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 10 m\par with respect to Eros’s center of mass. (This is an estimate\par of the accuracy using the entire NLR data set\par within the ground-based data center. The NLR measures\par range to the asteroid’s surface, not to its center\par of mass, which must be estimated through numerous\par measurements made while NEAR orbits Eros.)\par }{\b\f1\fs24 NLR TESTING\par }{\fs21 The NLR was tested at the instrument and spacecraft\par levels to ensure that it satisfied or exceeded all\par instrument and spacecraft requirements and that no\par adverse conditions existed that would jeopardize or\par corrupt spacecraft or other instrument operations.\par Instrument testing included functional, environmental,\par and end-to-end testing.\par Functional testing used ground support equipment\par (GSE) to simulate return signals for the NLR to operate\par with over simulated pulsewidths\par (dilation), return levels\par (simulating changes in\par range or albedo), and operational\par modes. Fiber-optic\par links allowed us to test\par throughout integration although\par the transmitter was a\par Class IV laser, which would\par have precluded open-air testing\par in unprotected areas.\par Environmental testing\par was performed to evaluate\par the NLR operation and performance\par under various operating\par conditions (variable\par spacecraft bus voltages, environmental\par temperatures and\par gradients, and modes of operation).\par Because the NLR\par produces high currents within\par its power supply to the\par transmitter (}{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 45 A), the influence\par on other spacecraft\par }{\f5\fs15\cf5 135 received photons\par @ 223 km\par }{\f5\fs15\cf6 0\par 0.1\par 0.2\par 0.3\par 0.4\par 0.5\par 0.6\par 0.7\par 0.8\par 0.9\par 1.0\par }{\f5\fs15 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220 240 260 280 300\par }{\f5\fs15\cf7 0\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 2000\par 4000\par 6000\par 8000\par 10,000\par }{\f5\fs15\cf5 12,000\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 14,000\par }{\f8\fs15\cf6 P}{\f5\fs12\cf6 d\par }{\f5\fs15 Mission requirement\par }{\f8\fs15 N}{\f5\fs12 s\par }{\f5\fs15 NLR capability\par Slant range (km)\par }{\f5\fs15\cf6 Probability of detection (single shot)\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 Signal photons per pulse at detector}\par {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }154 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\fs21 laser firings. This was verified during a post-launch\par interference test that was conducted in May 1996.\par Finally, a free-space laser radar test was conducted\par to ensure end-to-end operation and to provide significant\par data and confidence in the ability of the NLR\par to perform as required. Prior to this test, the NLR had\par been operated using GSE; the receiver was provided\par with a “simulated” return signal, and the transmitter\par was used only to provide timing for the return signal.\par Issues such as power level sensitivity, optical alignment,\par and attributes associated with overall system\par implementation were not quantifiable until this endto-\par end test was performed.\par }{\b\f1\fs22 Functional Testing\par }{\fs21 A graded-index lens was attached to one of the\par windows in the aperture door to provide access to the\par receiver prior to launch. A cap at the output aperture\par of the NLR transmitter was installed that had a fiberoptic\par connector to allow access to the laser. Fiberoptic\par links allowed direct access to the transmitter and\par receiver to permit simulation of effects during the\par environmental and functional tests without having to\par resort to open-air testing. This simulation allowed\par significant testing without affecting people around the\par laser, especially during spacecraft integration activities.\par Fiber optics routed the transmitted pulse from the\par laser to the GSE, where a photodetector converted\par the optical signal into an electrical one for simulation\par of delay, signal level changes, and pulse stretching.\par This modified signal was then sent to a GSE laser\par source, transforming the electrical signal back into an\par optical one. This modified optical signal could then\par be directed to the receiver, and NLR performance\par could be analyzed over a multitude of return signal\par conditions.\par Figure 15 presents data for a functional test performed\par on the NLR. The receiver was sequenced\par through a range of threshold levels, and range counters\par were averaged over multiple laser firings at each of the\par threshold levels. The data plots in Fig. 15 illustrate an\par expected error caused by the use of leading-edge detection,\par a condition denoted as range-walk. As the threshold\par levels are increased, increasingly more energy is\par required by the return pulse to signal its arrival (which\par produces the STOP signal). Increased energy occurs\par later within the return pulse; thus the range indicated\par by the range counters increases with increased threshold\par levels, introducing a bias, or range-walk. The calibration\par curve shown in Fig. 15 illustrates a range-walk\par of 4 m over operational thresholds. The corresponding\par range-walk for range measurements is 2 m; the difference\par between the counters is that calibration measurements\par are one-way TOFs, whereas range is computed\par by dividing TOF by 2. In the particular case shown,\par calibration data at the lowest threshold were unreliable\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 13. }{\f5\fs16 Diagram explaining pulse dilation occurring as the\par pulse interacts with the asteroid’s surface. Various parameters\par describing the spacecraft’s look angle are presented in (a), which\par give rise to pulse dilated returns, defined by (b). As the pulse is\par transmitted from the NLR, the pulse duration is relatively sharp\par and small, }{\f3\fs16 »}{\f5\fs16 15 ns. As the pulse incurs extended aspects of the\par surface, significant backscatter dilation starts to occur. This “distributed”\par return manifests itself by stretching the pulse over the\par finite extent of the range gate used. (c) The details associated with\par rough surface pulse stretching are shown. R= measured range;\par z}{\f5\fs12 rms }{\f5\fs16 = surface roughness.\par }{\fs21 instruments (especially the magnetometer) was evaluated.\par No interference was observed from the NLR\par using data from all NEAR instruments during repeated\par }{\f5\fs16 Spacecraft\par }{\f8\fs16 r}{\f5\fs13 1\par }{\f8\fs16 r}{\f5\fs13 0\par }{\f5\fs16 x\par }{\f8\fs16 h}{\f5\fs13 0\par }{\f7\fs16 u}{\f5\fs13 s\par }{\f7\fs16 u}{\f5\fs13 d\par }{\f7\fs16 u}{\f5\fs13 p\par }{\f5\fs16 Eros’s surface\par (a)\par Transmitted\par pulse\par Threshold level\par Received\par pulse\par Time\par }{\f8\fs16 R }{\f5\fs16 Dilation\par (b)\par }{\f8\fs16 z }{\f5\fs13 rms\par }{\f5\fs16 Eros’s surface\par }{\f5\fs16\cf8 NLR line of sight\par }{\f5\fs16\cf3 Mean slope\par }{\f5\fs16 (c)\par }{\f5\fs16\cf3 Mean slope\par }{\f5\fs16 z ( }{\f5\fs13 s}{\f5\fs16 , }{\f5\fs13 p}{\f5\fs16 ) }{\f7\fs16 u u\par }{\f5\fs16 z ( }{\f5\fs13 s}{\f5\fs16 , }{\f5\fs13 p}{\f5\fs16 ) }{\f7\fs16 u u}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }155\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\f5\fs15 35\par 30\par 0\par 5\par 10\par 15\par 20\par 25\par 20\par 0\par 5\par 10\par 15\par 0\par 10\par 20\par 30\par 40\par Pointing angle, }{\f5\fs12 p }{\f5\fs15 (deg)\par }{\f7\fs15 u\par u\par }{\f5\fs15 Mean slope angle, }{\f5\fs12 s }{\f5\fs15 (deg)\par }{\f7\fs15 u\par u\par }{\f5\fs15 Dilation, }{\f8\fs15 z}{\f5\fs15 ( }{\f5\fs12 s}{\f5\fs15 , }{\f5\fs12 p}{\f5\fs15 ) (m)\par }{\f8\fs15 z}{\f5\fs15 ( }{\f5\fs12 s}{\f5\fs15 , }{\f5\fs12 p}{\f5\fs15 ) = 6 m }{\f7\fs15 u u\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 14. }{\f5\fs16 Surface plot of dilation z( }{\f7\fs16 u}{\f5\fs12 s}{\f5\fs16 , }{\f7\fs16 u}{\f5\fs12 p}{\f5\fs16 ) with locus of points describing z = 6 m\par shown to indicate maximum permissible z (which becomes range error) for the NLR\par mission.\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 175\par 173\par 170\par 171\par 172\par 174\par 169\par 168\par 166\par 167\par 165\par Calibration (m)\par }{\f5\fs15\cf9 Simulated range (m)\par }{\f5\fs15 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7\par Threshold level\par }{\f5\fs15\cf3 Calibration\par }{\f5\fs15\cf9 Range\par 1589\par 1585\par 1586\par 1587\par 1588\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 15. }{\f5\fs16 Data for a functional test performed on the NLR. The\par receiver was sequenced through a range of threshold levels, and\par range counters were averaged over multiple laser firings at each\par of the threshold levels. The plots illustrate an expected error\par caused by the use of leading-edge detection, a condition denoted\par as range-walk. Threshold levels are described in the text and\par represent the binary exponent multiple of the base threshold\par voltage, 16 mV.\par }{\fs21 and therefore not plotted. For range, the measurements\par were excessively noisy at the lowest two levels, indicating\par insufficient energy in the return pulse for reliable\par detection. However, once we used threshold levels set\par for operation (levels from }{\i\f2\fs21 n }{\fs21 = 2 to }{\i\f2\fs21 n }{\fs21 = 6 in the threshold\par equation given earlier, 2}{\i\f2\fs14 n }{\i\f2\fs21 V}{\fs14 th}{\fs21 ), reliable calibration and\par range values were provided by the tests.\par }{\b\f1\fs22 Environmental Testing\par }{\fs21 To ensure that the instrument\par would survive launch stresses and the\par NEAR space environment, each NLR\par component was subjected to rigorous\par environmental testing. Such testing\par involved frequency-swept vibration\par levels, mechanically induced from 10\par to 100 Hz at sweep rates of 4 octaves/\par min along the thrust-axis optical boresight.\par (Maximum amplitude of 15 }{\i\f2\fs21 g }{\fs21 occurred\par from 30 to 40 Hz.) Along the\par lateral axes, frequency range and rate\par were identical with maximum amplitudes\par occurring between 15 and 25 Hz\par of 7.5 }{\i\f2\fs21 g}{\fs21 . The NLR instrument was also\par subjected to random vibration over\par frequencies of 20–2000 Hz for 60 s\par along each of the axes, with an overall\par root-mean-square amplitude of 13.6 }{\i\f2\fs21 g}{\fs21 .\par Performance data were collected\par following each axis of vibration, and\par instrument alignment was verified before\par and after each test using two optical methods. The\par first method measured the relative change between\par optical reference cubes mounted on the transmitter,\par receiver, and instrument base. The alignment of these\par reference cubes was measured with a theodolite having\par 2-arcsec precision. Transmitter-to-receiver alignment\par for our bistatic configuration was also determined by\par observing the transmitter beam in the receiver far-field\par FOV. This measurement was made by mapping the\par transmitter central lobe to the electronically determined\par FOV of the receiver. Measurements indicated\par that the shifts induced by the mechanical vibration\par tests (345 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 rad) were well within the acceptable range\par (<1100 }{\f7\fs21 m}{\fs21 rad), permitting reliable transmitter-toreceiver\par alignment.\par The operating temperature of the spacecraft is projected\par to be between }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 29 and }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 55}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C, and the survival\par range is projected to be between }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 34 and\par }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 60}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C. However, manufacturers’ specifications for\par some of the NLR elements required that the components\par be maintained at a different temperature range.\par This was accomplished through blanketing and heater\par control. We tested the adequacy of the NLR thermal\par design by testing the transmitter (laser) from 0 to\par }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 20}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C, the receiver optics from }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 10 to }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 30}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C, and\par the NLR electronics from }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 29 to }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 55}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C. Survival\par tests, during which the components are unpowered,\par increased the thermal range of operation testing by\par 5}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C in each direction (e.g., transmitter survival testing\par range was increased to be from }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 5 to }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 25}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C).\par To evaluate the NLR over these ranges, we placed\par the entire integrated instrument (including all power\par supplies and flight cabling) in a thermal-vacuum}\par {\fs14 T. D. COLE\par }156 {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998)\par }{\fs21 (T-V) chamber and operated it over several thermal\par cycles. The T-V test lasted for 5 days: 3 days involved\par actual testing and 2 days were required to attain stable\par thermal and vacuum conditions for operation. To characterize\par the NLR while it was in the chamber, the\par previously described fiber-optic links were used to\par route the transmitter signal out of the chamber to the\par GSE and to return the modified optical signal back\par into the chamber to the receiver, permitting continuous\par performance evaluation. To prevent corona and\par to ensure reliable operation of the NLR, the instrument\par was soaked in vacuum (<10}{\f7\fs14 2}{\fs14 5 }{\fs21 torr) for the initial\par 36 h before it was powered.\par We evaluated calibration data during the T-V testing,\par collecting over 200 range measurements at various\par threshold levels for each of the three plateau temperatures\par investigated, }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 29, }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 25, and }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 55}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C. When\par operation at }{\f7\fs21 1}{\fs21 55}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C was compared with operation at\par }{\f7\fs21 2}{\fs21 29}{\f3\fs21 °}{\fs21 C, a very slight thermal influence on NLR performance\par was found; the range shifted by less than\par 0.5 ns (}{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 15 cm).\par }{\b\f1\fs22 End-to-End System Test\par }{\fs21 An end-to-end system test, conducted\par under moderately controlled\par conditions in a 216.4-mlong\par hallway at APL, verified that\par the NLR operated as a laser altimeter\par }{\i\f2\fs21 system}{\fs21 . The NLR was configured\par to fire at 1 Hz at two distinct\par targets, one at a time. One target,\par a sand-blasted aluminum sheet,\par could be characterized as a Lambertian\par scatterer. The second target, a\par silicate-rich rock, was use to represent\par more of what we expect of\par Eros’s surface. Figure 16 shows these\par targets; the white circle on the targets\par in Fig. 16a is the actual\par Nd:YAG infrared beam; the camera\par used to photograph is a charge coupled\par device camcorder and is sensitive\par to the near infrared. Data were\par collected at one range for the aluminum\par target and at two separate\par ranges for the rock target. Target\par ranges varied between 182 and 211\par ft, with actual values determined\par using a NIST-traceable 91.44-m\par surveyor’s rule. The data, as represented\par in Fig. 16a, illustrate the insignificant\par noise and error levels associated\par with NLR operation.\par To simulate actual operating distances\par (nominally 50 km) for the\par NLR, we used neutral density filters\par }{\f5\fs15 270\par NLR calibration range (counts)\par 700\par NLR range (counts)\par 680\par 600\par 620\par 640\par 660\par 200 250 300 350 400 450 500\par Range sample\par 269\par 264\par 265\par 266\par 267\par 268\par Range-walk\par Range-walk\par Range-walk\par Al target\par Rock target\par Rock target\par (a) (b)\par 200 250 300 350 400 450\par Calibration sample\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 16. }{\f5\fs16 A free-air test (in a 216.4-m hallway) within the APL campus. (a) Evaluation\par and (b) calibration of NLR. Photographs of the targets used (sand-blasted aluminum and\par silicate rock) are also shown. The arrows indicate which target was illuminated during data\par collection. (a) Note the presence of the infrared laser beam on the targets as a result of the\par infrared sensitivity of the “photographs,” which were derived from frames of a commercial\par charge coupled device camcorder. (b) An expanded version of the threshold changes\par while the aluminum target was viewed (the plots in a and b are time correlated). Counts\par are converted to range by using the speed of light, c. (Calibration requires division by an\par index of refraction of the fiber optic, }{\f3\fs16 »}{\f5\fs16 1.5; range uses c, but must be divided by 2 to account\par for round-trip elapsed time.)\par }{\fs21 and an aperture stop for a total attenuation of 71 dB.\par The graphs in Fig. 16 show range data from the NLR\par for operational threshold levels. As expected, at the\par lowest threshold levels noise dominated, and at the\par highest threshold levels no returns were detected.\par Given the binary-increasing (octave) scaling used\par to create the threshold levels (recall that comparator\par voltage levels vary as 2}{\i\f2\fs14 n }{\i\f2\fs21 V}{\fs14 th}{\fs21 ), the operational threshold\par at }{\i\f2\fs21 n }{\fs21 = 5 is }{\f3\fs21 »}{\fs21 9 dB above the receiver noise floor. With\par the 71-dB attenuation, estimated link margin for the\par NLR operating at 50 km to Eros is estimated to be 9–\par 12 dB. The 3-dB granularity cannot be improved upon\par using these test data because the data were taken using\par the eight-valued preset threshold scheme.\par }{\b\f1\fs24 SUMMARY\par }{\fs21 The successful launch of the NEAR spacecraft from\par Cape Canaveral on 17 February 1996 at 3:43 EST was\par only the beginning. Three tests performed subsequent}\par {\fs14 JOHNS HOPKINS APL TECHNICAL DIGEST, VOLUME 19, NUMBER 2 (1998) }157\par {\fs14 NEAR LASER RANGEFINDER\par }{\fs21 to launch indicated satisfactory operation of the NLR.\par The actual Eros rendezvous is scheduled for February\par 1999. From the substantial surface coverage of Eros by\par the NLR and the altimeter’s expected resolution and\par accuracy performance, the resulting measurements\par should significantly enhance our understanding of\par asteroid structure. In addition to instrument-level testing,\par the NLR underwent spacecraft qualification testing\par as an integrated instrument. Figure 17 depicts the\par NLR located on the NLR instrument deck (note the\par nonflight, red caps that were used to protect the optics\par prior to launch).\par Although the NLR was a relatively simple laser\par radar compared with designs commonly in use by terrestrial\par laser rangefinders, the combined requirement\par of operating an instrument in deep space for a prolonged\par period under strong design constraints (weight,\par cost, and schedule) contributed significantly to the\par complexity of this instrument. Fortunately, radiation\par effects for the NEAR mission are slight (10-krad total\par dose); nevertheless, space exposure influenced our\par selection and design approach for the electronics and\par the optical components.\par }{\fs18 REFERENCES\par }{\fs13 1}{\fs14 Binzel, R., Gehrels, T., and Matthews, M. (eds.), }{\i\f2\fs14 Asteroids II, }{\fs14 The\par University of Arizona Press, Tucson (1989).\par }{\fs13 2}{\i\f2\fs14 Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Laser Transmitter}{\fs14 , }{\i\f2\fs14 Vol. 1: Technical and\par Management}{\fs14 , Proposal to RFP No. 389, McDonnell Douglas Aerospace—\par West (13 Dec 1993).\par }{\fs13 3}{\fs14 Bass, M. (ed.), }{\i\f2\fs14 Handbook of Optics, Vol. I: Fundamentals, Techniques, and\par Design}{\fs14 , McGraw-Hill, New York (1995).\par }{\fs13 4}{\fs14 Swenson, T., }{\i\f2\fs14 Specification of Microplasma 1064-nm Narrow Band Filter}{\fs14 ,\par Technical Application Note, Optical Corp. of America (29 Aug 1994).\par }{\fs13 5}{\fs14 Davidson, F. M., and Sun, X., }{\i\f2\fs14 Reduced Electrical Bandwidth Receivers for\par Direct Detection 4-ary PPM Optical Communication Intersatellite Links}{\fs14 , NASA\par Final Report, Grant NAG5-1510 (Feb 1993).\par }{\fs13 6}{\fs14 Reiter, R. A., }{\i\f2\fs14 Timing Precision of the NEAR Navigation Laser Rangefinder\par (NLR) Analog Electronics}{\fs14 , APL Technical Memorandum S2A-93-0201,\par JHU/APL, Laurel, MD (27 Sep 1993).\par }{\fs13 7}{\fs14 Rodriguez, D., }{\i\f2\fs14 NEAR Laser Rangefinder Digital Processor—Electrical Design\par Data Package}{\fs14 , APL Technical Memorandum S2F-94-0315, JHU/APL,\par Laurel, MD (6 Oct 1994).\par }{\fs13 8}{\fs14 Moore, R. C., }{\i\f2\fs14 NEAR NLR Flight Software Requirements Specification}{\fs14 , APL\par Technical Report 7352-9069, JHU/APL, Laurel, MD (Oct 1994).\par }{\fs13 9}{\fs14 Webb, P. P., “Properties of Avalanche Photodiodes,” }{\i\f2\fs14 RCA Rev}{\fs14 . 234–278\par (Jun 1974).\par }{\b\f4\fs16 Figure 17. }{\f5\fs16 The NLR instrument (circled) as integrated into the\par NEAR spacecraft. Note the red-tag covers used to protect optics\par prior to launch. The total spacecraft mass was 816.5 kg (1800\par pounds) (with propellant); the NLR weighed slightly less than 5 kg.\par }{\fs13 10}{\fs14 Cole, T. D., and Davidson, F. M., “Performance Evaluation of the Near-\par Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR) Laser Rangefinder,” }{\i\f2\fs14 Proc. SPIE,\par Photonics for Space Environments IV }{\b\f1\fs14 2811}{\fs14 , 156–168 (1996).\par ACKNOWLEDGMENT: This work was supported under contract N00039-95-\par C-002 with the U.S. Navy. Thomas B. Coughlin is the program manager for the\par NEAR program.\par }{\b\f1\fs18\cf2 THE AUTHOR\par }{\fs16 TIMOTHY D. COLE is the section supervisor of the Electro-Optical Instrumentation\par Section within APL’s Space Department. He holds academic degrees in\par electrical engineering (B.S.E., M.S.E.E.) and technical management (M.S.).\par Mr. Cole has been involved in laser radar technologies for both exoatmospheric\par and terrestrial applications. He designed and led the engineering effort\par that developed the NEAR laser altimeter. He has also been a lead engineer\par and project manager on several space programs and led the development\par of an ophthalmologic instrument in collaboration with the Hopkins Wilmer\par Eye Institute. Before Mr. Cole came to APL, he performed analyses of and\par research into long-wave infrared sensors and detector technologies. Currently,\par he is a member of the NLR science team and holds a chair position at the\par Center for Non-destructive Evaluation (CNDE). His e-mail address is\par timothy.cole@jhuapl.edu.\par}\par } 