# SBN PSI Archive Site

This is the repository for the primary archive site for the Asteroid/Dust subnode of the PDS Small Bodies Node. It is a simple static site generated by Jekyll, served via Apache, with dependancies on jQuery, Vue, and AngularJS. Pages are curated manually.

## Adding a new page

1. Create a file in the appropriate directory
2. Copy in the contents of `template.html`
3. Set the title of the page in the `---` header `title: `
4. Add the page content beneath the `---` header
5. Add page [breadcrumbs](#breadcrumbs) to the top of that section, above your content
6. If this is a "list" page that directs users to other resources, be sure to read the sections on [relative links](#linking) and [list pages](#lists)

## <a name="breadcrumbs"></a> Creating breadcrumbs

Breadcrumbs should be added to any page that is reached via links in the main hierarchy on the site. These will give context to where the user is at, and make it easier to navigate back.

Copy this template:
```HTML
<ol class="breadcrumbs">
    <li><a href="">Home</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumbs-separator">/</li>
    <li>  <!-- Link to parent page -->  </li>
    <li class="breadcrumbs-separator">/</li>
    <li>  <!-- Name of current page --> </li>
</ol> 
```

You can add additional levels as needed, like in the context of a mission. See a complete example for the Dawn GRaND Mars Bundle:
```HTML
<ol class="breadcrumbs">
    <li><a href="">Home</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumbs-separator">/</li>
    <li><a href="archive/missions.html">Missions</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumbs-separator">/</li>
    <li><a href="resource/dawn">Dawn</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumbs-separator">/</li>
    <li><a href="resource/dawn/dawngrandPDS4.html">GRaND</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumbs-separator">/</li>
    <li>Ceres Bundle 1.0</li>
</ol>
```

## <a name="linking"></a> Linking between pages

### Relative links
Relative links are any link to a page within the same website, and they do not start with `http` or `/`. It is important when creating a link (`<a>`) to be sure to use the correct relative path to the destination page. At the top of each HTML page, there is a `<base>` tag that indicates the origin of any relative links on the page (which should not be modified). In effect, this means that every internal link on the site should point to the path <em> from the root of this project </em>, rather than the relative path from the page itself.

Using the same example above for the breadcrumbs, note that the links all navigate from the root:
```HTML
<a href="resource/dawn/dawngrandPDS4.html">GRaND</a>
```
Even if you were to link to this page from `resource/dawn/index.html`, you would need to spell out the full path; this is done for consistency, and to make it easier to maintain in the future. Creating a simple relative link  to a sibling page (`<a href="dawngrandPDS4.html">`) works when there is no `<base>` tag assigned, but it is no longer appropriate for use on this site.

### Smart breadcrumbs links
In order for breadcrumbs to always show the actual path that the user took to arrive at a particular page, attributes must be added to most internal links which will then be used to pass along parameters to subsequent pages to help them build accurate breadcrumbs.

Smart breadcrumbs links should be used and are most important for "List pages", like the All Asteroid Data, Image Data, etc.

A smart breadcrumb link looks like this example, from the All Asteroids Data page:
```HTML
<a class="referral-link" data-page="Asteroid" data-type="Target Type" href="resource/orex/ola.html">OSIRIS-REx OLA</a>
```

The three pieces that you need to add to a standard relative link are the following:
- `class="referral-link"`: This exact class should be applied to any link to indicate that it is a smart breadcrumb link
- `data-page`: Set the value of this attribute to the name of the page that it is on (the referrer)
- `data-type`: Set the value of this attribute to one of the following exactly: `Data Type`, `Target Type`, or `Missions`, depending on the context of the page that the link is on (the referrer)

If everything works, clicking on the link will navigate to the destination page with some additonal parameters passed in the URL, and the breadcrumbs on the destination page should point back to the path of the referrer.

## Setting a page theme
Theme images in the main site header on each page are an additional context clue, orienting the user as to where they are on the site. In general, we use them to indicate when they are on a page related to a mission, or are navigating based on target/data type.

Pages will already have a default theme applied to them based on their breadcrumbs, but in order to override this (for example, to add a mission logo), do the following:
1. Add an image to the `images` directory (if necessary)
2. At the top of the file in the `---` header, add an attribute called `theme:`
3. Set the theme to the relative path of the image you wish to display:
```YAML
---
layout: default
title: OSIRIS-REx OCAMS Bundle 
theme: "images/osiris-rex.png"
---
```

## <a name="lists"></a> Adding a new List page
There are two additional things to be aware of when creating a new list page, because the site needs to know about them programmatically in order to build the primary browse pages (Target type, data type, missions) as well as keywords to match for the Shortcut box.

### Modifying the Browse page lists

In order to add a row to the browse page tables (Browse by Data Type, Browse by Target Type, Browse by Mission), a new entry must be added to `js/search-data.js`. These entries are Javascript objects, so a small familiarity with those will be helpful, but in this case it is simply a notation for key-value pairs.

Each entry should be surrounded with curly braces `{}`, separated by commas, and each key should be of the form `\[key\]: '\[value\]',` (including the trailing comma).

To add an entry, start from scratch using the above description or copy an existing one and modify the values. The following keys should be set for each entry:
1. `name`: The name of the page as it should appear in the list
1. `url`: The path to the list page you are adding
1. `category`: The type of list being added, one of the following exactly: `Data Type`, `Target Type`, or `Missions`
1. `description`: The description of the page (only used for Data Type pages)
1. `instruments`: The list of instruments used on the mission (only used for Mission pages). This value must be a Javascript array (a comma-separated list of strings surrounded by brackets `[]`)

Once this is saved, a row will be added to the appropriate title based on the category.

### Shortcut search results

The results of the Shortcut bar are sourced from the same file as is used to generate the browse page lists: `js/search-data.js`. To add new results or to edit the keywords that are associated with the results, the procedure is similar to the above instructions.

If you've already added an entry to get a page to appear on the browse page, that entry will also appear in the shortcut search results. Those results are filtered by matching the query against any part of an entry's values, including the name, description, and instruments. 

To add additional keywords associated with a given page that a user might search for, simply add a new key with any name, and add your keywords as the value of that key. For example, if you wanted the "TNOs, Centaurs, and Pluto" page to also appear when the user searched "Trans-Neptunian", you could just do the following:
```JS
{
    name: 'TNOs, Centaurs, and Pluto',
    subtitle: '',
    url: '/pds/tnos.html',
    category: 'Target Types',
    other: 'Trans-Neptunian'
}
```

## Creating a new post for Tips and Tricks

The Tips and Tricks section uses Jekyll as a content management system in order to turn markdown files into posts that will then show up on the website. To create a new post:

### 1. Create a new file in `_posts` directory
The file must be of the format: `YYYY-MM-DD-post-title.md`. Set the date in the filename to the date that you wish the article to be published (can be in the future).

### 2. Add a `---` header to the top of the new file
Copy the following into your new post:
```YAML
---
layout: social
category: Tool Help 
title: 
author: 
---
```
Update the title and author of the post in the header, and also set a new category if necessary. Below this header, add the content of the post. You do **not** need to include the title of the post in the content, this will be added automatically.

This header is called "front-matter", and it is in the language [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML). Some characters (`:`, `-`, `#`) might give you problems if you include them in the post title, so you should surround it with quotes as shown in the below example. They will not appear in the post. If you need to include quotes in the actual title of the post, you may escape it with `\`. For example:

```YAML
---
layout: social
category: Tool Help 
title: "A name with \"quotes\": and other such things" 
author: Mike Drum
---
```

### 3. Generate a new category list page (Optional)
If you are creating a new post with a new category for the first time, you will need to also create a new folder/file for that category so that posts within it will also be displayed there.

In the support directory, create a folder matching the category name in "slug" format: all lower-case, and dashes (`-`) instead of spaces. For example, "Tech Tips" would become "tech-tips".

Inside this folder, create a new file index.html (or copy it from another category). Set the header like such:
```YAML
---
layout: social-list
title: Tech Tips Articles
category-name: Tech Tips
---
```
**Important**: The layout must be "social-list" and you should copy the category to "category-name" and *not* "category". 

Leave the rest of the file blank, and Jekyll will generate a page with any articles with that category name

### 4. Commit and push to GitHub
`git add`, `git commit`, and `git push` the new content to the `master` branch. This will trigger a build of the site, and you will see a success/failure message in the #pds-ops channel in Slack

### 5. Deploy to staging
If everything built correctly, a preview of the site will appear automatically at [http://borg.psi.edu:8080/pds/](http://borg.psi.edu:8080/pds/). If you have any posts dated for the future, they will appear on this site so you can preview them, but they will **not** appear once we migrate to the live production site (until that date arrives and the site is regenerated).

### 6. Deploy to production
Run the script Mike tells you to