{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fnil \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times;}{\f1\fnil \fcharset2 \fprq2 WP MathA;}{\f2\fnil \fcharset0 \fprq2 Helvetica;}
{\f3\fnil \fcharset2 \fprq2 WP BoxDrawing;}{\f4\fnil \fcharset2 \fprq2 WP IconicSymbolsA;}}{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\margl1440\margr1440\margb432\widowctrl\ftnbj\ftnrestart\aftnnar \sectd \sbknone\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl0 
{\plain }{\plain \b\scaps\fs36 Near-Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Project\par
}{\plain \b\scaps\fs36 Archive Generation, Validation, and\par
}{\plain \b\scaps\fs36 Transfer Plan}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain Prepared by:\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain D. Davis and C. Neese\par
}{\plain Planetary Science Institute\par
}{\plain 620 North Sixth Avenue\par
}{\plain Tucson, Arizona 85705-8331\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain E. Grayzeck\par
}{\plain University of Maryland\par
}{\plain College Park, Maryland 20742\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain D. Holland\par
}{\plain Science Data Center Manager\par
}{\plain NEAR Project\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \revised February 14, 1998}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard\page {\plain \b\scaps\fs28 Near-Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Project\par
}{\plain \b\scaps\fs28 Archive Generation, Validation, and\par
}\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain \b\scaps\fs28 Transfer Plan}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn432\margrsxn446\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain Approved by:\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1840\trkeep
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3546
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5359
\cellx5876
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11210
\pard
\intbl {\plain M.H. Acu\'f1a\par
}{\plain Team Leader, MAG\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain J.I. Trombka\par
}{\plain Team Leader, XGRS\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1840\trkeep
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3546
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5359
\cellx5876
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11210
\pard
\intbl {\plain M. F. A'Hearn\par
}{\plain Node Manager\par
}{\plain Small Bodies Node, PDS\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain J. Veverka\par
}
{\plain Team Leader, MSI-VIS}
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1561\trkeep
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3546
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5359
\cellx5876
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11210
\pard
\intbl {\plain }{\plain \revised T. Morgan}{\plain \par
}{\plain NEAR Program Scientist\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain D.K. Yeomans \par
}{\plain Team Leader, RS\par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1561\trkeep
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3546
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5359
\cellx5876
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11210
\pard
\intbl {\plain A.F. Cheng\par
}{\plain NEAR Project Scientist\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain M.T. Zuber \par
}
{\plain Team Leader, NLR}
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1002\trkeep
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3546
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5359
\cellx5876
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11210
\pard
\intbl {\plain S. McMahon\par
}{\plain Project Manager\par
}
{\plain Planetary Data System}
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain T. Coughlin\par
}
{\plain NEAR Project Manager}
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain Date}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain \par
}\sect \sectd \headery1440\endnhere 
{\header \pard \sl0 
{\plain \i\fs19 Near-Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Project Archive Generation, Validation, and Transfer Plan}{\plain \par }}
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain }{\plain \b CHANGE PAGE}{\plain \par
}\pard\page {\plain \b\scaps TABLE OF CONTENTS}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \b\scaps 1.0\tab Introduction}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \b\scaps 2.0\tab Overview of NEAR Mission}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \scaps 2.1\tab Mission Overview\par
}{\plain \scaps 2.2\tab Ground Data System\par
}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \b\scaps 3.0\tab Archiving Functions}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \scaps 3.1\tab Overview of the Archiving Functions\par
}{\plain \scaps 3.2\tab Archive Design\par
}{\plain \scaps 3.3\tab Generation of Archive\par
}{\plain \scaps 3.4\tab Validation of Archive\par
}{\plain \scaps 3.5\tab Further Information\par
}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \b\scaps 4.0\tab Roles and Responsibilities}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \scaps 4.1\tab Responsibilities of the NEAR Project\par
}{\plain \scaps 4.2\tab Responsibilities of the PDS\par
}{\plain \scaps 4.3\tab Responsibilities of NSSDC\par
}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \b\scaps 5.0\tab NEAR Archive Structure}{\plain \scaps \par
}{\plain \scaps 5.1\tab Overview of the Archive Structure\par
}{\plain \scaps 5.2\tab The Volume Documentation Files\par
}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\sl0\tx720 
{\plain \scaps 5.3\tab The Data Set Collections\par
}\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain \scaps \par
}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\sl0\tx720 
{\plain \b\scaps 6.0\tab Schedule for Generation, Validation, and Delivery}{\plain \par
}\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \b\scaps 7.0\tab NEAR Data Release Policy}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b Appendix A\tab \tab NEAR Science Data Products}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b Appendix B\tab \tab Glossary of Terms and Acronyms}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qj\fi-1440\li1440\sl0\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \b Appendix C\tab \tab Data Level Definitions\par
}\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain \b \par
}\pard \qj\fi-2160\li2160\sl0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160 
{\plain \b Appendix D\tab \tab NEAR Project Data Policy}{\plain \par
}\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\sect \sectd \pgnrestart\pgndec\pgnx6120\pgny15120\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain }{\plain \b\fs28 1.\tab Introduction.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain This document defines the process of archiving data from the NEAR mission with the Planetary 
Data System (PDS), including the design, generation, validation, and transfer of the data archive to 
PDS.  The archive will include raw and reduced data, navigation data necessary for the 
interpretation of the data, documentation, and software.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain Section 2 gives an overview of the NEAR mission including the Ground Data System by means of 
which the data stream will be converted into science data products.  Section 3 provides an overview 
of the steps necessary to produce the NEAR data archive, while Section 4 specifies the roles of each 
of the participants in the archiving process, and assigns responsibility for each of the archiving 
functions.  Section 5 outlines the upper\_level structure of the archive itself.  Details of the archive 
structure down to the file level will be determined later as information about the data products from 
each instrument becomes available, and will be specified in the Software Interface Specification 
(SIS) documents.  Section 6 provides the schedule for data archiving, and section 7 specifies the data 
release policy for the NEAR mission.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain For reference, a list of the NEAR science data products expected from each instrument, a glossary 
of acronyms used in this document, and the data level definitions are given in the appendices.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b\fs28 2.\tab Overview of the NEAR Mission.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 2.1\tab Mission Overview}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR) spacecraft was launched on February 17, 1996, and 
is planned to rendezvous with the S\_class near\_earth asteroid 433 Eros. First detection of Eros by 
the NEAR instruments is expected to occur in the fall of 1998, and rendezvous maneuvers will begin 
on January 10, 1999, with the initial close approach to Eros.  NEAR will remain in orbit to study 
the asteroid for the rest of the nominal mission which will end on February 6, 2000.  Prior to 
reaching 433 Eros, NEAR will fly within 1200\~km of the C\_class main\_belt asteroid 253 Mathilde 
on June 27, 1997.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The instruments aboard NEAR include the Multispectral Imager (MSI), the Near Infrared 
Spectrometer (NIS), the X\_ray/Gamma\_ray Spectrometer (XGRS), the Magnetometer (MAG), and 
the NEAR Laser Rangefinder (NLR).  In addition, the Radio Science (RS) experiment will use the 
NEAR telemetry system to determine the mass and gravity field of the asteroid.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 2.2\tab Ground Data System}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The NEAR Ground Data System is the mechanism by which the raw spacecraft data stream will be 
converted to science data products.  The Mission Operations Center (MOC), located at APL, will 
be responsible for monitoring the status of the spacecraft and payloads, commanding the spacecraft 
and payloads, and coordinating real\_time mission planning.  The MOC will receive telemetry 
packets from DSN and process them to level 0 through 0b, providing the level 0b data to the Science 
Data Center (SDC).\par
}{\plain The Science Data Center (SDC), also at APL, will support the processing, analysis, and archiving 
of the science data.  In particular, the SDC will support the Science Teams, providing easy access 
to all the data required by the teams, and coordinating archival of products produced by the teams 
to the Planetary Data System. \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The SDC will accept and process telemetry, command history, and navigation data, creating the 
Experiment Data Records (EDRs), calibration files, and telemetry archive.  Also, the SDC will 
coordinate with Mission Operations to collect science sequence priorities from the Science Teams, 
and will coordinate with JPL to develop the asteroid kinematics model, gravity model, and shape 
model.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b\fs28 3.\tab Archiving Functions.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 3.1\tab Overview of the Archiving Functions}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The archive will contain science data products from each of the instruments, navigation and 
geometry data from the SPICE kernels, software, and sufficient documentation of the data, software, 
and mission to enable future scientists to understand and use the archive.  To produce this archive, 
a number of steps need to be carried out, including design of the archive structure and contents, 
generation of the archive components, validation, and final packaging and delivery.  The science 
data products form the core of the archive, and a list of the expected data products from each of the 
instruments is given in Appendix A.\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\sl0\tx720 
{\plain \i 3.2\tab Archive Design}{\plain \par
}\pard \qj\sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain The dataset to be archived from the NEAR project is expected to be several tens of GB in size.  The 
archive will be delivered using CDs or digital versatile disks (DVDs), as appropriate.  The data will 
be ordered by time first, then by instrument, and further divided by type of data, if relevant.  
Figure\~1 illustrates the structure of a typical volume of the archive.  Data types and volumes for each 
instrument and archive component and for the total archive are shown in Table\~1.  The details of 
what components are included in the archive and how they are grouped into data sets, subdirectories, 
and files comprises the design of the archive. The upper level structure and contents of the archive 
are described in more detail in Section 5.  The arrangement of the final details of the archive down 
to the file level will not be specified until more detailed information on the data products and other 
components are available.  When the final detailed structure of the archive is established, it will be 
recorded in Software Interface Specification (SIS) documents.\par
}{\plain \pard\page Figure 1\par
}\pard\page 
\pard \qj\sl0 
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh780\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx1986
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx6078
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7740
\pard
\intbl \qc 
{\plain \b Table 1\par
}\qc 
{\plain \b Data Volumes for Archive Components}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh722\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1986
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6078
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain }{\plain \b Archive 
Component}{\plain }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \b Data Type}{\plain }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b Data Volume\par
}
{\plain \b (MB)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1542\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain }{\plain MSI}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Raw Images\par
}{\plain Mosaicked Images\par
}{\plain Calibrations\par
}{\plain Shape Data\par
}
{\plain Support Data}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1262\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain NIS}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Raw Spectra\par
}{\plain Calibrations\par
}{\plain Calibrated Spectra\par
}
{\plain Image Cubes}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1262\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain XGRS}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Raw Data File\par
}{\plain X\_ray Maps\par
}{\plain Gamma\_Ray Maps\par
}
{\plain Elemental Composition Maps}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1262\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain RS}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Raw Data (Doppler vs. Time)\par
}{\plain Doppler Residuals\par
}{\plain Gravity Maps\par
}
{\plain Other}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh982\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain NLR}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Raw Time Tagged Data\par
}{\plain Altimetry Data Products\par
}
{\plain Gravity and Dynamics}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh982\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain MAG}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Uncorrected B Components vs. Time\par
}{\plain B(t) Time Series\par
}
{\plain Calibrated Spherical Harmonic Models}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain MERGE}
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain Shape models}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh703\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Navigation}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Mission History File - Mission Wide\par
}
{\plain SPICE Kernels}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh982\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Software}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Calibration Algorithms\par
}
{\plain Higher Level Software (as provided by 
Science Team)}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1986
\cellx6078
\cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Documentation}
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh481\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx1986
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx6078
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7740
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Total archive}
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain {\f1 \'2d}50-100 GB}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0\keepn 
{\plain }{\plain \i 3.3\tab Generation of the Archive}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain Responsibility for generating archive components is specified in Section 4.  Science data products 
will be generated in PDS\_compatible formats.  This requires that each data file (data table or image 
file) be in a format approved by PDS and be accompanied by a PDS "label", actually a detached 
}{\plain \revised descriptive header file}{\plain  describing formally the content and structure of the }{\plain \revised accompanying data}{\plain  file.  
Navigation and geometry data necessary to interpret the data (e.g. spacecraft ephemeris and attitude 
records, command histories, and spacecraft housekeeping files) will be extracted from the SPICE 
kernels and provided as ancillary archive components.  The source code of all software to be 
provided with the archive will be collected and documented.  In addition, files documenting the 
archive components will be prepared by the parties generating the data.  In general, all information 
necessary to interpret and use the data are to be included in the archive.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The PDS provides for the documentation of the mission, spacecraft, instruments, and data products 
with special documenting files called "catalog objects".  Since the catalog objects take the form of 
a template which must be filled out with prescribed information, they are also (misleadingly) 
referred to as "templates" even when they are already filled out.  The required templates are the 
mission template, describing the NEAR mission as a whole, the "instrument host template" 
describing the spacecraft, one instrument template for each instrument, and one data set template 
for each data set.  These templates should contain all information necessary to document the archive, 
and ideally should make it possible for scientists to make correct use of the data in the distant future 
when the mission personnel are not available to support them.  The PDS will fill in the formal 
portions of the catalog objects, requiring only text descriptions of the mission, spacecraft, 
instruments, and data sets from NEAR.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 3.4\tab Validation of the Archive}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain Data validation falls into two types, validation of the data itself and validation of the compliance of 
the archive with PDS archiving requirements. The first type of validation will be carried out by the 
Science Teams, and the second will be overseen by the PDS, in coordination with the teams and the 
SDC.  The delivery schedule of four separate delivery dates for different portions of the mission will 
facilitate validation by insuring that problems in the early deliveries are resolved by the time of the 
later deliveries and the final archive.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The formal validation of data content, adequacy of documentation, and adherence to PDS archiving 
standards is finalized with an external peer review.  The peer review will be coordinated by the PDS.  
The peer review process may result in "liens", actions recommended by the reviewers or by PDS 
personnel to correct the archive.  All liens must be resolved by the dataset provider:  the SDC for 
level 1b and calibration data, the science teams for higher level data products and calibration 
algorithms.  Once the liens are cleared, PDS will do a final validation prior to packaging and 
delivery.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 3.5\tab Final Packaging and Delivery}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain The data delivery will take place in four stages, as specified in the timeline in Figure 2.  Each 
subsidiary delivery will be made to PDS on a hard medium such CD-ROMS.  The final data 
delivery will incorporate the entire archive, including the earlier data deliveries.\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \pard\page Figure 2\par
}\pard\page {\plain \i 3.6\tab Further Information}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain An introduction to PDS archiving is available at http://pds.sbn.astro.umd.edu.  More detailed 
information on data archiving in the PDS can be found in the PDS Data Preparation Workbook 
(DPW) and in the PDS Standards Reference (SR).\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b\fs28 4.\tab Roles and Responsibilities.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain This section describes the roles and responsibilities of the personnel and organizations involved in 
generating, validating, transferring and distributing the NEAR archive.  The NEAR project and 
NEAR science teams are responsible for archive generation and validation; the Planetary Data 
System (PDS) has the responsibility of ensuring that the archive meets PDS standards (including 
peer review of the data), advising the project and science teams on archive related issues, 
maintaining active archives of NEAR products for access by the science community and being the 
interface with NSSDC for "deep archiving" of NEAR data.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 4.1\tab Responsibilities of the NEAR Project}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The NEAR archive consists of products generated by the NEAR project and by the individual 
science teams.  The Project Science Team has the overall responsibility of setting observing 
priorities for the spacecraft instruments in order to meet the fundamental science goals of the NEAR 
project.  The ensemble data from these observations constitute the raw science data, the fundamental 
element of the archive. \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \li720\sl0 
{\plain a)\tab Science Data Center\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}\pard \li1440\sl0 
{\plain The SDC is responsible for generating and validating the level 1b science data files, 
calibration files, spacecraft ephemeris and spacecraft attitude records, a history of all 
commands and spacecraft housekeeping files, the asteroid shape and kinematic 
models, and the source code and associated documentation of software used to 
generate the data products.  The software is quite important so that a future user can 
redo the calibration without recourse to the science teams.\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}\pard \li1440\sl0 
{\plain The SDC will prepare the Software Interface Specification (SIS) documents, which 
are an invaluable documentation of the archive structure and content both for internal 
use and for future users of the archive.\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}\pard \li1440\sl0 
{\plain The SDC is also responsible for clearing all liens generated by the review process 
on products produced by the SDC.\par
}\pard \sl0 
{\plain \par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl0\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain b)\tab Science Teams\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \li1440\sl-235 
{\plain The team leader of each science team is responsible for delivering to the SDC a 
complete and validated archive of all files necessary for final data calibration, and 
all higher level data products (levels 2 and 3) produced by the team, along with 
source code for software and associated documentation.\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \li1440\sl-235 
{\plain The team leader of each science team is also responsible for clearing all liens 
generated by the review process on products produced by his/her team.\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \li720\sl-235 
{\plain c)\tab Archive Production\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \li1440\sl-235 
{\plain The NEAR project has the responsibility of producing (premastering of CD\_ROMS) 
the final archive volumes and distributing these volumes to the NEAR community. \par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 4.2\tab Responsibilities of the PDS}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The Small Bodies Node (SBN) is the lead node for interfacing with the NEAR mission and will be 
supported by the PPI node (magnetometer data), radio science subnode (radio science data), imaging 
node (imaging data), and NAIF node (SPICE data).  Specific functions of PDS are:\par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-235\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain a)\tab Archive Generation Activity:  Support the generation of the archive by advising the 
project/science teams on PDS archive standards, requirements and documentation 
needs.  PDS/SBN will also support the data validation activity to ensure that the 
formal peer review process, a requirement for data ingestion into PDS, proceeds with 
a minimum of problems.\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-235\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain b)\tab Conduct a formal peer review of the archive.  This is a PDS mandated step before 
any data can be ingested into PDS.\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-235\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain c)\tab Offer support to NEAR Project Science Teams and SDC in the resolution of liens 
that arise in the course of the peer review.\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-235\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain d)\tab Produce archive volumes for distribution to the NASA supported science 
community.\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-235\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain e)\tab Provide the data archive volumes to NSSDC.\par
}\pard \sl-235 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 4.3\tab Responsibilities of NSSDC}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \revised NSSDC is responsible for "deep" archiving of NEAR data for long-term preservation and for filling 
large data orders to the science community per the Memorandum of Understanding, dated January 
13, 1994, between the PDS and NSSDC.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b\fs28 5.\tab NEAR Archive Structure.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 5.1\tab Overview of the Archive Structure}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The NEAR archive will be broken down into data set collections, one for each instrument and one 
for data sets deriving from more than one instrument (the MERGE data set collection).  A typical 
volume will contain data from a specified time interval.  The top level directory of a volume will 
thus contain directories for each of the data set collections and directories for each of the additional 
components of the archive, as required by PDS.  The directories in the top level directory of the 
volume are given in Table\~2.\par
}\pard 
{\plain \par
}\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh780\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx1764
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7416
\pard
\intbl \qc {\plain \b Table 2\par
}{\plain \b Top-Level Components of a NEAR Archive Volume}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh442\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1764
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain }{\plain \b Directories}{\plain }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b Contents}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain }{\plain DOCUMENT}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Text files serving as documentation for the archive.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh982\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain CATALOG}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain The catalog objects (templates) required by PDS to 
document the mission, spacecraft, instruments, and data 
sets.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain SOFTWARE}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Software to be included with the archive.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh703\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain CALIB}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Calibration files.  Calibrations may also be included 
within individual data sets.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh703\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain GEOMETRY}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Data necessary to describe the observing geometry, 
such as spice kernels.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh703\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain INDEX}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Index files to enable the user to find the data of interest.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain MSI}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain The MSI data set collection.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain NIS}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain The NIS data set collection.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain XGRS}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain The XGRS data set collection.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain MAG}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain The magnetometer data set collection.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain NLR }
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain The NLR data set collection.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx1764
\cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain RS}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain The radio science data set collection.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh760\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx1764
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7416
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain MERGE}
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain The collection of data sets originating from more than 
one instrument.}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \i 5.2\tab The Volume Documentation Files}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain PDS requires a number of volume documentation files for each archive volume, including 
aareadme.txt, a text file describing the contents of the volume, and voldesc.cat, a machine\_readable 
file with a catalog of all the files residing on the volume. Each of the directories under the top level 
directory also requires one or more volume documentation files to document the contents of that 
directory. The details of these files are specified in the PDS Standards Reference.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard\page 
\sect \sectd \sbknone\margtsxn1296\margbsxn1296\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard 
{\plain }{\plain \i 5.3\tab The Data Set Collections}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The list of expected data products from each of the NEAR instruments, as provided by the science 
teams at the May 1995 Science Team Meeting, is given in Appendix\~A.  The data products from 
each instrument will comprise a data set collection, and within each of these data set collections, the 
individual data products will be grouped into data sets.  As an example, a suggested grouping of the 
MSI data products into data sets is presented in Table\~3.  Similarly, the data products from each of 
the other instruments will also be grouped into data sets.\par
}{\plain \par
}\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh741\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2088
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7092
\pard
\intbl \qc {\plain \b Table 3\par
}{\plain \b The MSI Data Set Collection}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh481\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx2088
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7092
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain }{\plain \b Data Sets}{\plain }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b Data Products}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx2088
\cellx7092
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain }{\plain Raw images}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Raw images}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh423\trkeep
\cellx2088
\cellx7092
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Calibration files}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Calibration files}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh982\trkeep
\cellx2088
\cellx7092
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Mosaicked images}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Global color map\par
}{\plain Global B/W map\par
}{\plain Regional high\_res maps}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1542\trkeep
\cellx2088
\cellx7092
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Shape data}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Control point network\par
}{\plain Shape model (1x1 degree, resolution {\f1 \'2d}20m)\par
}{\plain Grid overlays for selected images\par
}{\plain Global digital image mosaic (6m/pix) with 
topographic overlay (8pix/deg)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1040\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx2088
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7092
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain Support data}
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain Mission history file\par
}{\plain Updated pointing for all images\par
}
{\plain Improved rotational elements}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b\fs28 6.\tab Schedule for Archive Generation, Validation, and Delivery.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The principal archive elements, namely the science data products defined in Appendix A, will be 
generated during the course of the mission, as will many ancillary products such as SPICE files.  
The general guideline for Discovery missions is that they deliver data and calibration files to PDS 
at six-month intervals.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain The timeline for archive delivery to PDS is shown in Figure 2.  The final archive delivery is to be 
made 90 days after the end of the nominal mission in order to allow time for PDS review and lien 
resolution before the end of SDC operations.  There are three additional PDS data delivery dates 
planned:  Mathilde encounter data (December 31, 1997, six months after the encounter); Earth 
encounter data (August, 1998, six months after Earth encounter); and one intermediate delivery of 
Eros data (12/31/99).  The final archive delivery will include updated versions of each of the 
preliminary deliveries.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain Following the delivery of data to PDS is a several-month-long period in which the data will be peer 
reviewed by PDS.  Any liens that are identified by the peer review process will be rectified by the 
Project and the appropriate science teams before they cease operation (expected to be 30\~days after 
the end of mission for science teams and 10/01/2000 for the SDC)  The NEAR project is responsible 
for resolving all liens against the final archive delivery.  Final acceptance of the data by PDS will 
occur only after all liens have been cleared.  The early delivery of data to PDS, such as the Mathilde 
encounter data, will help to identify early in the mission any potential problems that can be 
addressed before the final archive is generated, thus avoiding liens on the data that require 
significant resources to correct.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \b\fs28 7.\tab NEAR Data Release Policy.}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain There are no proprietary data rights for the NEAR Mission.  Most uncalibrated (level 1b) data, 
particularly image data, will be publicly released by the NEAR project over Internet in close to real 
time.  The full NEAR Project Data Policy is given in Appendix\~D.\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain Fully reduced, calibrated and corrected data products (levels 2 and 3) will be produced under the 
direction of the science teams for delivery to PDS per the schedule given in Section 6.  The Team 
Leaders are responsible for coordinating all scientific investigations involving the use of calibrated 
data (levels 2 and 3) from their respective instruments and ensuring that all science data products 
are delivered in a timely fashion.\par
}\pard\page 
\sect \sectd \sbknone\pgnrestart\pgndec\pgnx6120\pgny15120\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang}

\pard \fi-2160\li2160\tx720\tx1440\tx2160 
{\plain \fs22 }{\plain \b\fs26 Appendix A.\tab NEAR Science Data Products}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Data products listed by the science teams at the May 1995 NEAR Science Team Meeting, with additional 
fundamental (level 1) data suggested for archiving by the PDS.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \uldb\fs22 Multispectral Imager (MSI)}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Validated raw images in PDS format with ancillary information.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Complete pre\_flight calibration files with documentation.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Complete in\_flight calibration files with documentation.\par
}{\plain \fs22 "Best" final calibration files, calibration algorithms, and optimum parameters.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Mosaicked images:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab global B/W map.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab global color map.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab regional high\_res maps.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Mission history file (objectives of sequences, anomalies, etc.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab (an observing log indicating what has changed and why.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 Support data:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab A)\tab Updated pointing (all images).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab B)\tab Improved rotational elements.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab C)\tab Control point network.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab D)\tab Shape model (1x1 degree, R{\f1 \'2d}20m)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab E)\tab Grid overlays for selected images.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab F)\tab Global digital image mosaic (6m/pix) with topographic overlay (8pix/deg).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \uldb\fs22 Near\_Infrared Spectrograph (NIS)}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Validated raw 62\_channel data, in PDS format, with ancillary information.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Complete pre\_flight calibration files with documentation.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Complete in\_flight calibration files with documentation.\par
}{\plain \fs22 "Best" final calibration files, calibration algorithms, and optimum parameters.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Individual I/F calibrated spectra in PDS format with ancillary information.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Mosaicked map\_projected image cubes (format TBD, but compatible with MSI).\par
}{\plain \fs22 Mission history file (objectives of sequences, anomalies, etc.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \uldb\fs22 X\_ray/Gamma\_ray Spectrometer (XGRS)}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Cruise and approach phases:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Verification of detector operation.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Calibrations of the XGRS detectors.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Identification of natural and induced activities.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Cross\_calibration of solar monitors.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Eros orbital phase:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Near\_real\_time X\_ray maps:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab \tab Relative abundances of Mg, Al, and Si for quiescent sun.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab \tab Relative abundances of Mg, Al, Si, S, Ca, and Fe for active sun conditions.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Near\_real\_time gamma\_ray maps:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab \tab Natural radioactivity (most likely K) distribution.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab \tab Global composition for selected elements.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Longer\_term data products:\par
}\pard \fi-720\li2160\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Elemental composition maps derived from X\_ray data with spatial resolution from 5 to 100 
km.\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\margtsxn1296\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2160\pnhang}

\pard \fi-1440\li2160\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Elemental composition maps derived from gamma\_ray data over quadrants of Eros.  X\_ray solar 
spectral variation as a function of solar activity.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-720\li720\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Computer models used for identifications available both before and after encounter.  (software)\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Fundamental (level 0/1) data also to be archived:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Detector Count Rates\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Natural Radioactivity Rates\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab EDR's from Solar Monitors\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \uldb\fs22 Radio Science and Navigation (RS)}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Mass of Mathilde and uncertainty.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Mass of Eros and uncertainty.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Harmonic coefficients and associated uncertainties from gravity model.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Harmonic coefficients and associated uncertainties from shape model.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Gravity maps.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Accelerations (mgal) and uncertainties at reference surface.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Geoid potential and associated uncertainties.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Vertical Bouguer (difference) map at reference surface.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Line\_of\_sight acceleration residuals remaining after gravity model.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Spin state of Eros.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Principal axes directions and moments of inertia.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Orbit determinations and ephemerides for satellites of Eros.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Limit upon outgassing acceleration acting upon Eros.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Fundamental (level 0) data also to be archived:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Frequencies vs. time\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Doppler shifts relative to ephemeris model vs. time\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Ephemeris Model\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab \par
}{\plain \uldb\fs22 NEAR Laser Rangefinder (NLR)}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Raw type target data (level 1).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \ul\fs22 Altimetry data products}{\plain \fs22 :\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Profiles:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab EDRs with approximate horizontal resolution 10m.\par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 CDRs with 10m horizontal resolution.  (Precision orbits, higher vertical and horizontal integrity than 
EDRs.)\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Grids:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab One month in 50km orbit will provide a 3 km grid.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Six months in 35km orbit will provide a 300 m grid.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Spherical harmonic topographic model and error model:\par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 A 120th degree and order model (300m resolution) with variance\_covariance matrix.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Reference surface:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Global surface from the altimetry referenced to center of mass.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \ul\fs22 Gravity and dynamics data products}{\plain \fs22 :\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Spherical harmonic gravity model:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab An approximately 15th degree and order gravitational field model.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Grids:\par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Geoid and gravity anomaly maps of Eros for use in geophysical and geologic investigations.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Error model:\par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 The variance\_covariance matrix of the gravity model, an error map and error spectrum for the gravity 
field.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Tracking data and precision orbits:\par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Archive the validated Doppler tracking data in a PDS\_compatible format and the precision orbits with 
a radial accuracy of 5\_10 m.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Spin axis and rotation period:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab The rotation period and spin axis direction at regular intervals.\par
}\pard \fi-720\li1440\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Simple descriptive model developed for comparison with imaging results.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \uldb\fs22 Magnetometer (MAG)}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 Raw B field components (field 1).\par
}{\plain \fs22 Time series (B(t)) in spacecraft coordinates.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Time series in celestial coordinates (J2000 inertial).\par
}{\plain \fs22 Time series in Eros\_centered (non\_inertial) spherical polar coordinate system.\par
}{\plain \fs22 Spherical harmonic models of Eros "global" field \_ wire models/graphics ("hairy asteroid").\par
}{\plain \fs22 Spherical harmonics descriptions of magnetic "anomalies".\par
}\pard \fi-720\li720\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Special data products (time series, spectra, etc.) for solar wind interaction characterization and boundary 
detection, i.e., BP filter data, FFT's, etc.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Special data products to support joint investigations (GRS, gravity, etc.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 Fundamental (level 0) data also to be archived:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Raw magnetic field strengths\par
}{\plain \fs22 \tab Corrections applied for spacecraft interaction with B-field\par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \uldb\fs22 Auxiliary Data Products}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-720\li720\sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 Instrument and dataset descriptions to be incorporated into templates according to PDS guidelines.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard\page 
\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn1296\margrsxn1296\margtsxn1296\pgnrestart\pgndec\pgnx6120\pgny15120\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 }{\plain \b\fs26 Appendix B.  Glossary of Terms and Acronyms}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \ul\fs22 Acronyms:}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 APL\tab \tab \tab \_\tab \tab The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory.\par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 C&DH\tab \tab \tab \_\tab \tab Command and Data Handling.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 DPW\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab The PDS Data Preparation Workbook.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 EDR\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Experimental Data Record.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 GSE\tab \tab \tab \_\tab \tab Ground Support Equipment.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 JPL\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Jet Propulsion Laboratory.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 MAG\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Magnetometer, a NEAR instrument.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 MOC\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Mission Operations Center\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 MSI\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Multi\_Spectral Imager, a NEAR instrument.\par
}\pard \fi-4896\li4176\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600 
{\plain \fs22 NAIF\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab \tab Navigation and Ancillary Information Facility, a discipline node of 
PDS.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 NASCOM\tab \tab \_\tab \tab NASA Communications.\par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 NEAR\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous mission.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 NIS\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Near\_Infrared Spectrometer, a NEAR instrument.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 NLR\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab NEAR Laser Rangefinder, a NEAR instrument.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 NSSDC\tab \tab -\tab \tab National Space Science Data Center.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 PDS\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab The Planetary Data System.\par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 PPI\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Planetary Plasma Interactions, a discipline node of the PDS.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 RS\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Radio Science, a NEAR experiment package.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 SBN\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Small Bodies Node, a discipline node of the PDS.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 SDC\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab NEAR Science Data Center, based at JHU/APL.\par
}\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 SIS\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab Software Interface Specification.\par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 SPICE\tab \tab \tab \_\tab \tab A system of providing navigation and geometry data.  \par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab S = Spacecraft, P = Planet, I = Instrument, C\~=\~C\_matrix, and E = 
Events.\par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 SR\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab The PDS Standards Reference.\par
}\pard \fi-2736\li2736\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160 
{\plain \fs22 XGRS\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab X\_ray Gamma\_ray Spectrometer, a NEAR instrument.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \ul\fs22 Terms:}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 Catalog object\tab \tab \_\tab \tab A PDS\_required file formally documenting the details of a mission, 
spacecraft, instrument, or data set.\par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 Label\tab \tab \tab \_\tab \tab An attached or detached header which formally describes the structure 
and content of a data file.\par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 Lien\tab \tab \tab \_\tab \tab An action recommended by reviewers or PDS personnel to correct the  
archive.\par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 Template\tab \tab \_\tab \tab Same as a catalog object \par
}\pard \fi-3456\li3456\sl-218\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs22 Volume\tab \tab \_\tab \tab A single CD\_ROM or other volume of a storage medium.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard\page 
\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn1296\margrsxn1296\margtsxn1296\pgnrestart\pgndec\pgnx6120\pgny15120\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang}

\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 }{\plain \b\fs26 Appendix C.\tab Data Level Definitions}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \ul\fs22 Level:}{\plain \fs22 \tab \tab }{\plain \ul\fs22 Description:}{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 0\tab \tab The raw telemetry data as received at the ground receiving station or ground test GSE, organized 
by contacts or ground test.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 0a\tab \tab The telemetry data as produced by the C&DH system on the spacecraft and passed to the 
telemetry subsystem.  NASCOM headers and trailers have been separated.  Level 0a contains 
transfer frame packets organized by contacts or ground tests.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 0b\tab \tab The transfer frame packets for virtual channel 2 and sub\_packets for virtual channels 0 and 3, 
plus radiometric tracking data, all organized by contacts or ground test.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 1\tab \tab Level 0b data that have been cleaned and merged, time ordered, and in packet format.  Cleaned 
and merged means that duplicate data have been deleted, missing packets are padded out, and 
the data are organized by days.  The actual format of these data is the same as level 0b.  This is 
the level that should be passed to the instrument GSE's for their processing.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 1a\tab \tab The level 1 data that have been separated by instrument.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 1b\tab \tab The level 1a data that have been sorted by instrument data types and instrument modes.  Data 
are in scientifically useful form, e.g. as images or individual spectra.  These data are still 
uncalibrated,\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 2\tab \tab Level 1b with calibration and corrections applied to yield data in scientific units.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \fi-1296\li1296\sl-218\tx720 
{\plain \fs22 3\tab \tab Higher level data products developed for specific scientific investigations.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
\pard\page 
\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn1296\margrsxn1296\margtsxn1296\pgnrestart\pgndec\pgnx6120\pgny15120\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent2016\pnhang}

\pard \fi-2016\li2016\sl-218\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs22 }{\plain \b\fs26 Appendix D.\tab NEAR Project Data Policy}{\plain \fs22 \par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 }{\plain \b\f2\fs20 {\f3 \'57}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'34}{\f3 \'55}}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 S1P 94\_151\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 November 28, 1994\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 To:\tab \tab Thomas B. Coughlin\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 From:\tab \tab Andrew F. Cheng\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 Re:\tab \tab NEAR Project Data Policy\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 This is a summary of the data analysis and release policies for the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous 
(NEAR) Project.  It is meant to cover the pre\_flight, post\_launch, and data analysis activities of the 
NEAR Science Team and Instrument Scientists.  A list of these individuals is attached.  Data policies 
were reviewed and discussed at a full meeting of the NEAR Science Team held at APL on November 
10\_11, 1994.  Subsequently, a draft Data Policy was circulated for comment among all Team members.  
Based upon the reviews and comments from Science Team members and Instrument Scientists, I am 
issuing the following Data Policy for the NEAR Project.\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 Ground Rules\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}\pard \fi-576\li576\sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 o\tab Selected uncalibrated data, including imaging, will be publicly released over the INTERNET in 
close to real time.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}\pard \fi-576\li576\sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 o\tab Fully reduced, calibrated and corrected data products will be published and forwarded to the 
Planetary Data System as soon as they have been generated and validated.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}\pard \fi-576\li576\sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 o\tab The Project strongly encourages shared data analyses, under the direction of the teams whose 
data are being used, among members of different instrument teams.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}\pard \fi-576\li576\sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 o\tab The Team Leaders are responsible for coordinating all scientific investigations involving the use 
of data from their respective instruments.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 Guidelines\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}\pard \fi-576\li576\sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 o\tab In the interest of a systematic and orderly data analysis, the Team Leaders must approve of all 
scientific investigations involving the use of data from their respective instruments.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}\pard \fi-576\li576\sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 o\tab Likewise, the Team Leaders must approve of all plans to release or to publish calibrated data 
from their respective instruments.  In this context, 'to publish' includes not only journal articles 
but also abstracts and presentations.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}\pard \fi-576\li576\sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 o\tab In case of differences of opinion, the issues will be brought before the Project Scientist for 
resolution.\par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 Distribution\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 T. Coughlin\tab \tab \tab NEAR Science Team members\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 R. E. Gold\tab \tab \tab NEAR Instrument Scientists\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 K. Heeres\tab \tab \tab Elizabeth Beyer (NASA HQ)\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 J. Landshof\tab \tab \tab Jurgen Rahe (NASA HQ)\par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 R. Farquhar\tab \tab \tab \par
}{\plain \f2\fs20 L. Young\tab \tab \tab }{\plain \par
}\sect \sectd \pgwsxn15840\pghsxn12240\marglsxn432\margrsxn432\margtsxn432\margbsxn446\lndscpsxn\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\pard \qc\sl-218 
{\plain \par
}\pard \sl-218 
{\plain \par
}\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1404\trkeep
\cellx15192
\pard
\intbl \qj 
{\plain \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab    NEAR\par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab   Archive\par
}
{\plain \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab   Volume}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \qj\sl-218 
{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh1908\trkeep
\cellx745
\cellx1490
\cellx2007
\cellx2590
\cellx3173
\cellx3690
\cellx4273
\cellx4856
\cellx5373
\cellx6199
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7025
\cellx7542
\cellx8125
\cellx8708
\cellx9225
\cellx9970
\cellx10715
\cellx11232
\cellx12139
\cellx13046
\pard
\intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}{\plain \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh415\trkeep
\cellx745
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1490
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2007
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2590
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3173
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3690
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4273
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4856
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5373
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6199
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7025
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7542
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8125
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8708
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9225
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9970
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10715
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11232
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12139
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx13046
\pard
\intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh648\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx745
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1490
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2007
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2590
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3173
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3690
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4273
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4856
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5373
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6199
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7025
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7542
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8125
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8708
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9225
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9970
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10715
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11232
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12139
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx13046
\pard
\intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs22 Documents}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs22 Catalog\par
}
{\plain \fs22 Objects}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs22 Software}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs22 Data Set\par
}
{\plain \fs22 Collections}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs22 Index}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs22 Calibration\par
}
{\plain \fs22 Files}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs22 Navigation\par
}{\plain \fs22 & Geometry}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph120\trrh861\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx745
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1490
\cellx2007
\clmgf\cellx2590
\clmrg\cellx3173
\cellx3690
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4273
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4856
\cellx5373
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6199
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7025
\cellx7542
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8125
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8708
\cellx9225
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9970
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10715
\cellx11232
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12139
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx13046
\pard
\intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl {\plain \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \par
}

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl \cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \qj\sl-218 
\trowd \trql\trgaph120\trrh415\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx652
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1267
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1730
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2440
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3150
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3613
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4351
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5089
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5552
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6042
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6532
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7036
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7540
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8044
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8543
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9006
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10486
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11114
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11577
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12283
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12773
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx13236
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx14476
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx14966
\pard
\intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trgaph120\trrh398\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx652
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx1267
\cellx1730
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2440
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3150
\cellx3613
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4351
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5089
\cellx5552
\cellx6042
\clmgf\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6532
\clmrg\cellx7036
\clmrg\cellx7540
\clmrg\cellx8044
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8543
\cellx9006
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10486
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11114
\cellx11577
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12283
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12773
\cellx13236
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx14476
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx14966
\pard
\intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs20 MERGE}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs20 MSI}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs20 NIS}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs20 XGRS}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs20 MAG}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs20 NLR}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs20 RS}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trgaph120\trrh1216\trkeep
\clmgf\cellx652
\clmrg\cellx1267
\cellx1730
\clmgf\cellx2440
\clmrg\cellx3150
\cellx3613
\clmgf\cellx4351
\clmrg\cellx5089
\cellx5552
\cellx6042
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6532
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7036
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7540
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8044
\cellx8543
\cellx9006
\clmgf\cellx10486
\clmrg\cellx11114
\cellx11577
\clmgf\cellx12283
\clmrg\cellx12773
\cellx13236
\clmgf\cellx14476
\clmrg\cellx14966
\pard
\intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs16 shape models}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs16 raw images\par
}{\plain \fs16 calibrations\par
}{\plain \fs16 mosaicked 
images\par
}{\plain \fs16 shape data\par
}
{\plain \fs16 support data}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs16 raw spectra\par
}{\plain \fs16 calibrations\par
}{\plain \fs16 calibrated spectra\par
}{\plain \fs16 image cubes\par
}
{\plain \fs16 support data}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs16 X-ray maps\par
}{\plain \fs16 Gamma-ray maps\par
}{\plain \fs16 composition maps\par
}
{\plain \fs16 solar spectral variations}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs16 B(t) time series\par
}{\plain \fs16 spherical harmonic models\par
}
{\plain \fs16 special data products}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs16 profiles\par
}{\plain \fs16 grids\par
}{\plain \fs16 error models\par
}
{\plain \fs16 gravity model}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 

\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \fs16 masses\par
}{\plain \fs16 harmonic coefficient\par
}{\plain \fs16 gravity maps\par
}{\plain \fs16 acceleration residuals\par
}
{\plain \fs16 spin state}
\cell \pard \intbl \cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \qj\sl-218 
{\plain \fs16 \par
}{\plain \fs16 \par
}{\plain \fs16 \par
}{\plain \fs16 \par
}{\plain \fs16 \par
}\pard \qc\sl-218 
{\plain \fs16 }{\plain \fs26 }{\plain \b\fs26 Figure 1.}{\plain \fs26   General structure of a typical volume of the NEAR archive.\par
}\sect \sectd \pgwsxn20160\pghsxn12240\marglsxn432\margrsxn432\margtsxn432\lndscpsxn\headery1440\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \sl-218 
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh-403\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2598
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3019
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3440
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3861
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4282
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4703
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5124
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5590
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6056
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6522
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx6988
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7454
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7920
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8386
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8852
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9318
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9784
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10250
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10716
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11182
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx11648
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\scaps Figure 2.  NEAR Mission Timeline and Associated Data Archive Activities}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh918\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx2598
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx3019
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx3440
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx3861
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx4282
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx4703
\clmgf\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx5124
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx5590
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx6056
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx6522
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx6988
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7454
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx7920
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx8386
\clmgf\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx8852
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx9318
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx9784
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx10250
\clmgf\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx10716
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx11182
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx11648
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \fs20 }{\plain \b\i\fs20 Launch 02/17/96}{\plain \fs20 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs16 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs12 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs9 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs7 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \fs5 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs2 Mathilde\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs2 Encounter\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs2 06/27/97}{\plain \fs4 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs3 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs2 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs1 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs0 Earth\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 Flyby\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 02/98}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs0 C/A -200D\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 06/24/98}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx2598
\cellx3019
\cellx3440
\cellx3861
\cellx4282
\cellx4703
\cellx5124
\cellx5590
\cellx6056
\cellx6522
\cellx6988
\cellx7454
\cellx7920
\cellx8386
\cellx8852
\cellx9318
\cellx9784
\cellx10250
\cellx10716
\cellx11182
\cellx11648
\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }{\plain \scaps\fs0 Mission Activity}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \b\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\cellx11648
\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }{\plain \b\fs0 Cruise Phase}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }{\plain \b\fs0 Encounter Phase}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }{\plain \b\fs0 Orbital Phase}{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh451\trkeep
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx2598
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \fs0 }{\plain \scaps\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\scaps\fs0 Archive Activity}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 Archive Plan}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 ----------------------------------------{\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh1245\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 Data Delivery to PDS}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs0        }{\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 Mathilde\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 12/31/97\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh460\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 1}{\fldrslt }}{\plain \b\i\fs0 PDS Peer Review}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 ----------------{\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 Lien Clearance}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh-403\trkeep
\cellx2598
\clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 Final Archive Acceptance}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh518\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx2598
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3019
\clmgf\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3440
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3861
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4282
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4703
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5124
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5590
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6056
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6522
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6988
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7454
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7920
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8386
\clmgf\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8852
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9318
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9784
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx10250
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx10716
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx11182
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx11648
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx12114
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 0}{\fldrslt }}{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 0}{\fldrslt }}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 1997}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 1998}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \sl287 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}\pard\page 
\pard \sl287 
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh-403\trkeep
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx375
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx750
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8544
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8895
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9246
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx9597
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 

\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh918\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx375
\clmgf\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx750
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clmgf\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx8544
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx8895
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx9246
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx9597
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs0 Eros C/A\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 10/10/98}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs0 Nominal\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 Mission End\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 03/31/00}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain \b\i\fs0 End\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 SDC Opns\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 10/01/00}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx375
\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\cellx8544
\cellx8895
\cellx9246
\cellx9597
\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qr 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\cellx375
\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\cellx8544
\cellx8895
\cellx9246
\cellx9597
\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\cellx8544
\cellx8895
\cellx9246
\cellx9597
\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clshdng1000\clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh451\trkeep
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx375
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx750
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh1196\trkeep
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl {\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 Earth Flyby\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 08/98}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 1st Eros\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 Delivery\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 12/31/99}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc {\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 Final\par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 Delivery\par
}
{\plain \b\i\fs0 06/30/00}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh518\trkeep
\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clmgf\clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clmrg\clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 3}{\fldrslt }}{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 0}{\fldrslt }}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 ------------{\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 -----------{\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 ------{\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \qc 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh432\trkeep
\clcbpat1\cellx375
\clcbpat1\cellx750
\clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl {\plain \b\i\fs0 {\f4 \'cb}}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trqc\trgaph72\trrh489\trkeep
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx375
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx750
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1125
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1500
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx1875
\clmgf\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2226
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2577
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx2928
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3279
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3630
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx3981
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4332
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx4683
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5034
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5502
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx5970
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6438
\clmgf\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx6789
\clmrg\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7140
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7491
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx7842
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8193
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8544
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx8895
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9246
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx9597
\clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clcbpat1\cellx10527
\pard
\intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\u 1}{\fldrslt }}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 1999}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 2000}{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 }
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \qc\sl287 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}\pard \sl287 
{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}{\plain \b\i\fs0 \par
}}